So we talked three years ago. I'm
curious in your view, what has been the
biggest update of the last three years?
What has been the biggest difference
between what it felt like last three
years versus now?
>> Yeah, I would say actually the
underlying technology like the
exponential of the technology has has
gone broadly speaking I would say about
about as I expected it to go. I mean
there's like plus or minus you know a
couple there's plus or minus a year or
two here. There's plus or minus a year
or two there. I don't know that I would
have predicted the specific direction of
code. Um but but actually when I look at
the exponential it it is roughly what I
expected in terms of the march of the
models from like you know smart high
school student to smart college student
to like you know beginning to do PhD and
professional stuff and in the case of
code reaching beyond that. So you know
the frontier is a little bit uneven.
It's roughly what I expected. I will
tell you though what the most surprising
thing has been. The most surprising
thing has been the lack of public
recognition of how close we are to the
end of the exponential. To me, it is
absolutely wild that, you know, you have
people, you know, within the bubble and
outside the bubble, you know, but but
you have people talking about these
these, you know, just the same tired old
hot button political issues and like,
you know, around us. We're like near the
end of the exponential. I I want to
understand what that exponential looks
like right now because the first
question I asked you when we recorded
three years ago was, you know, what's up
with scaling? How why does it work? Um I
have a similar question now but I feel
like it's a more complicated question
because at least from the public's point
of view.
>> Yes.
>> Three years ago there were these you
know well-known public trends where
across many orders of magnitude of
compute you could see how the loss
improves and now we have RL scaling and
there's no publicly known scaling law
for it. It's not even clear what exactly
the story is of is this supposed to be
teaching the model skills is supposed to
be teaching metalarning. Um what is the
scaling hypothesis at this point?
>> Yeah. So, so I have actually the same
hypothesis that I had even all the way
back in 2017. So, in 2017, I think I
talked about it last time, but I wrote a
doc called the the big blob of compute
hypothesis. And and and you know, it it
wasn't about the scaling of language
models in particular. When I when I
wrote it, GPT1 had had just come out,
right? So, that was you know, one among
many things, right? There was back in
those days there was robotics. People
tried to work on reasoning as a separate
thing from language models. there was
scaling of the kind of RL that happened
that you know kind of happened in Alph
Go and uh you know that that happened at
Dota at OpenAI and um you know people
remember Starcraft at Deep Mind you know
the Alpha Star um so uh it was written
as a more general document and and the
specific thing I said was the following
that and you know it's it's very you
know Rich Sutton put out the bitter
lesson a couple years later um uh but
you know the the hypothesis is is
basically the same so so what it says is
all the cleverness, all the techniques,
all all the kind of we need a new method
to to do something like that doesn't
matter very much. There are only a few
things that matter and I think I listed
seven of them. One is like how much raw
compute you have. The other is the
quantity of data that you have. Then the
third is kind of the quality and
distribution of data, right? It needs to
be a broad broad distribution of data.
The fourth is I think how long you train
for. Um the fifth is you need an
objective function that can scale to the
moon. So the pre-training objective
function is one such objective function
right another objective function is you
know the the kind of RL objective
function that says like you have a goal
you're going to go out and reach the
goal within that of course there's
objective rewards like you know like you
see in math and coding and there's more
subjective rewards like you see in RL
from human feedback are kind of higher
order higher order versions of that and
and then the sixth and seventh were
things around kind of like normaliz
ation or conditioning like you know just
getting the numerical stability so that
kind of the big blob of compute flows in
this laminer way instead of instead of
running into problems. So that was the
hypothesis and it's a hypothesis I still
hold. I I don't think I've seen very
much that is not in line with that
hypothesis. And so the pre-trained
scaling laws were one example of what of
of of kind of what we see there. And
indeed those have continued going like
you know uh you know I think I think now
it's been it's been widely reported like
you know we feel good about pre-training
like pre-training is continuing to give
us gains. What has changed is that now
we're also seeing the same thing for RL
right so we're seeing a pre-training
phase and then we're seeing like an RL
phase on top of that. Um and with RL
it's it's actually just the same like
you know even even other companies have
have published um uh um like um you know
in some of their in some of their
releases have published things that say
look you know we train the model on math
contests you know aime or or the kind of
other things and you know how well how
well the model does is log linear and
how long we've trained it and we see
that as well and it's not just math
contest it's a wide variety of RL tasks.
And so we're seeing the same scaling in
RL that we saw for pre-training. Um you
mentioned Richard Sutton and the bitter
lesson. Yeah,
>> I interviewed him last year and he is
actually very non LLM pill. And if I'm
if I I don't know if this is his
perspective, but one way to paraphrase
this objection is something like look
something which possesses the true core
of human learning would not require all
these billions of dollars of data and
compute and these bespoke environments
to learn how to use Excel or how does an
you know how to how to use PowerPoint,
how to navigate a web browser. And the
fact that we have to build in these
skills using these RL environments hints
that we're actually lacking this core
human learning algorithm. Uh and so
we're scaling the wrong thing. And so
yeah, that does raise a question. Why
are we doing all this RL scaling if we
do think there's something that's going
to be humanlike in its ability to learn
on the fly?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I think I think this kind
of puts together several things that
should be kind of thought of thought of
differently.
>> Yeah. I think there is a genuine puzzle
here, but it it may not matter. Um, in
fact, I would guess it probably it
probably doesn't matter. So, let's take
the RL out of it for a second because I
actually think RL and it's a red herring
to say that RL is any different from
pre-training in this matter. Um, so if
we if we look at pre-training scaling,
um, it it was very interesting back in,
you know, 2017 when Alec Radford was
doing GPT1. If you look at the models
before GPT1, they were trained on these
data sets that didn't represent a wide,
you know, distribution of text, right?
You had like, you know, these very
standard, you know, kind of language
modeling benchmarks and GBT1 itself was
trained on a bunch of, I think it was
fanfiction actually. Um, but you know,
it was it was like literary, you know,
it's like literary text, which is a very
small fraction of the text that you get.
And what we found with that, you know,
and in those days it was like a billion
words or something. So small data sets
and represented a pretty narrow
distribution, right? Like a narrow
distribution of kind of what what you
can see what you can see in the world.
And it didn't generalize well. If you
did better on um you know the the you
know I forget what but some some kind of
fanfiction corpus um it wouldn't
generalize that well to kind of the
other hat. you know, we had all these
measures of like, you know, how well
does how well does a model do at
predicting all of these other kinds of
texts. You really didn't see the
generalization. It was only when you
trained over all the tasks on the you,
you know, the internet when you when you
kind of did a general internet scrape,
right, from something like, you know,
common crawl or scraping links on
Reddit, which is what we did for GPT2.
It's only when you do that that you kind
of started to get generalization. Um,
and I think we're seeing the same thing
on RL that we're starting with first
very simple RL tasks like training on
math competitions. Then we're kind of
moving to, you know, kind of broader
broader training that involves things
like code as a task. And now we're
moving to do kind of many many other
tasks. And then I think we're going to
increasingly get generalization. So that
that kind of takes out the RL versus the
pre-training side of it. But I think
there is a puzzle here either way which
is that on pre-training when we train
the model on pre-training you know we we
use like trillions of tokens right and
and humans don't see trillions of words
so there is an actual sample efficiency
difference here there is actually
something different that's that's
happening here which is that the models
start from scratch and you know they
have to get much more much more training
but we also see that once they're
trained if we give them a long context
length. The only thing blocking a long
context length is like inference. But if
we give them like a context length of a
million, they're very good at learning
and adapting within that context length.
And and so I don't know the full answer
to this, but but I think there's
something going on that pre-training
it's it's not like the process of humans
learning. It's somewhere between the
process of humans learning and the
process of human evolution. It's like
it's somewhere between like we get many
of our priors from evolution. Our brain
isn't just a blank slate, right? Whole
books have been written about. I think
the language models, they're much more
blank slates. They literally start as
like random weights. Whereas the human
brain starts with all these regions.
It's connected to all these inputs and
outputs. Um and and so maybe we should
think of pre-training and for that
matter RL as well as as being something
that exists in the middle space between
human evolution and you know kind of
human on on the spot learning and as the
in context learning that the models do
as as something between long-term human
learning and short-term human learning.
So, you know, there there's this
hierarchy of like there's evolution,
there's long-term learning, there's
short-term learning, and there's just
human reaction. And the LOM phases exist
along this spectrum, but not necessarily
exactly at the same points that there's
no analog to some of the human modes of
learning. The LOMs are kind of falling
between the points. Does that make
sense?
>> Um, yes. Although some things are still
a bit confusing. For example, if the
analogy is that this is like evolution,
so it's fine that it's not that sample
efficient, then like well, if we're
going to get the kind of super sample
efficient agent from in context
learning, why are we bothering to build
in, you know, there's RL environment
companies which are it seems like what
they're doing is they're teaching it how
to use this API, how to use Slack, how
to use whatever. It's confusing to me
why there's so much emphasis on that if
the kind of agent that can just learn on
the fly is emerging or is going to soon
emerge or has already emerged.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I I I mean I can't speak
for the emphasis of anyone else. I can I
can only talk about how we how we think
about it. I think the way we think about
it is the goal is not to teach the model
every possible skill within RL just as
we don't do that within pre-training.
Right? Within pre-training we're not
trying to expose the model to you know
every every possible uh you know way
that words could be put together. Right?
you know, we're it's it's rather that
the model trains on a lot of things and
then and then it reaches generalization
across pre-training, right? That was
that was the transition from GPT1 to
GPT2 that I saw up close which is like
you know the the model reaches a point
you know I I I I like had these moments
where I was like oh yeah you just give
the model like you just give the model a
list of numbers that's like you know um
you know this is the cost of the house
this is the square feet of the house and
the model completes the pattern and does
linear regression like not great but it
does it but it's never seen that exact
thing before and and so to you know to
to the extent that we are building these
RL environments the the goal is is very
similar to what is be you know to what
was done five or 10 years ago with
pre-training with we're trying to get a
we're trying to get a whole bunch of
data not because we want to cover a
specific document or a specific skill
but because we want to generalize. I
mean I I think the framework you're
laying down obviously makes sense like
we're making progress towards AGI. I
think the crux is something like nobody
at this point disagrees that we're going
to achieve AGI in this century. And the
crux is you say we're hitting the end of
the exponential um and somebody else
looks at this and says, "Oh yeah, we
we're making progress. We've been making
progress since 2012 and then 2035 we'll
have a humanlike agent." And so I want
to understand what it is that you're
seeing which makes you think um yeah
obviously we're seeing the kinds of
things that evolution did or that human
within the human lifetime learning is
like in these models and why think that
it's one year away and not 10 years
away.
>> I I I actually think of it as like two
there's kind of two cases to be made
here or like two two claims you could
make. One of which is like stronger and
the other of which is weaker. So, I
think starting starting with the weaker
claim, you know, when when I first saw
the scaling back in like, you know,
2019,
um, you know, I wasn't sure. You know,
this was the whole this was kind of a
50/50 thing, right? I thought I saw
something that was, you know, and and my
claim was this is much more likely than
anyone thinks it is. Like, this is wild.
No one else would even consider this.
Maybe there's a 50% chance this happens.
um on the basic hypothesis of you know
as you put it within 10 years we'll get
to you know you know what I call kind of
country of geniuses in a data center I'm
at like 90% on that um and it's hard to
go much higher than 90% cuz the world is
so unpredictable um maybe the
irreducible uncertainty would be if we
were at 95% where you get to things like
I don't know may maybe multi you know
multiple companies have you know kind of
internal turmoil and nothing happens and
then Taiwan gets invaded and like all
the all the fabs get blown up by
missiles and and you know and then now
you scenario you know just you could
construct a scenario where there's like
a 5% chance that it it or you know you
can construct a 5% world where like
things things get delayed for for for
for for 10 years that's maybe 5%.
There's another 5% which is that I'm
very confident on tasks that can be
verified. So I think I think with coding
I'm just except for that irreducible
uncertainty there's just there's I mean
I think we'll be there in one or two
years there's no way we will not be
there there in 10 years in terms of
being able to do it end to end coding.
My one little bit the one little bit of
of fundamental uncertainty even on long
time scales is this thing about tasks
that aren't verifiable like planning a
mission to Mars like uh you know doing
some fundamental scientific discovery
like like crisper like you know writing
a writing a novel hard to hard to verify
those tasks. I am almost certain that
we have a reliable path to get there.
But like if there was a little bit
uncertainty, it's there. So, so, so, so,
so on the 10 years, I'm like, you know,
90% which is about as certain as you can
be. Like I think it's I think it's crazy
to say that this won't happen by by by
2035. Like in some sane world, it would
be outside the mainstream. But but the
emphasis on verification hints to me as
a lack of a lack of uh belief that these
models are generalized. If you think
about humans,
>> we are good at things that both which we
get verifiable reward and things which
we don't. You're like you have no no
this is this is why I'm almost sure we
already see substantial generalization
from things that that verify to things
that don't ver. We're already seeing
that. But but it seems like you were
emphasizing this as a spectrum which
will
uh split apart which domains we see more
progress and I'm like but that's it
doesn't seem like how humans get there.
>> The world in which we don't make it or
or or the world in which we don't get
there is the world in which we do we do
all the things that are that are
verifiable and then they like you know
many of them generalize but but we kind
of don't get fully there. We don't we
don't we don't fully you know we don't
fully color in this side of the box.
It's it's it's not a it's not a binary
thing. But but it also seems to me even
if even if in the world where
generalization is weak when you only say
baref domains it's not clear to me in
such a world you could automate software
engineering because software like in
some sense you are quote unquote a
software engineer but part of being a
software engineer for you involves
writing these like long memos about your
grand vision about different things and
so I don't think that's part of the job
of sui that's part that's part of the
job of the company but I do think
involves like design documents and other
things like that um which by the way the
models are not bad they're already
pretty good at writing comments and
start and so with with again I'm making
like much weaker claims here than I
believe to like you know to to to to
kind of set up a you know to to
distinguish between two things like
we're we're already almost there for
software engineering and we are already
almost there by by what metric there's
one metric which is like how many lines
of code are written by AI and if you use
if you consider other productivity
improvements in the course of the
history of software engineering
compilers write all the lines of
software and but we there's a difference
between how many lines are written and
how big the productivity improvement Oh
yeah. And um and then like we're almost
there, meaning like the how big is the
productivity improvement, not just how
many lines are written.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So so I actually um I
actually I actually agree with you on
this. So I I've made this series of
predictions on um code and software
engineering and and and I think people
have repeatedly kind of misunderstood
them. So So let me let me let me let me
let me lay out the spectrum, right? Like
I think it was like you know like you
know eight eight or nine months ago or
something I said you know the AI model
will be writing 90 90% of the lines of
code in like you know 3 to 6 months
which which happened at least at some
places right happened happened at
entropic happened with many people
downstream using our models but but
that's actually a very weak criterion
right people thought I was saying like
we won't need 90% of the software
engineers those things are worlds apart
right like I would put the spectrum term
as 90% of code is written by the model,
100% of code is written by the model and
that's a big difference in productivity.
Um 90% of the end toend SWE tasks,
right? Including things like compiling,
including things like setting up
clusters and environments, testing
features, writing memos, 90% of the SU
tasks are written by the models. 100% of
today's suite tasks are are are written
by the models. And and even when when
when that happen doesn't mean software
engineers are out of a job like there's
like new higher level things they can do
where they can they can manage and then
there's a further down the spectrum like
you know there's 90% less demand for
SWES which I think will happen but like
this is this this is a spectrum and you
know I wrote about it in in the
adolescence of technology where I went
through this kind of spectrum with
farming um uh uh and so I I actually
totally agree with you on that. It's
just these are very different benchmarks
from each other but we're proceeding
through them super fast. It seems like
in part of your vision it's like going
from 90 to 100 um first it's going to
happen fast and two that somehow that
leads to huge productivity improvements.
Um whereas when I noticed even in green
field projects that people start with
cloud code or something people report
starting a lot of projects and I'm like
do we see in the world out there a
renaissance of software all these new
features that wouldn't exist otherwise
and at least so far it doesn't seem like
we see that and so that does make me
wonder even if even if like I never had
to intervene on cloud code um there is
this thing of like there's just the
world is complicated jobs are
complicated and
closing the loop on self-contained
systems whether just writing software or
something how much sort of how much
broader gains we would see just from
that. And so maybe that makes us this
should dilute our estimation of the
country of geniuses.
>> I well well I actually I I like I like
simultaneously
I simultaneously agree with you agree
that it's a reason why these things
don't happen instantly but at the same
time I think the the the effect is going
to be very fast. So like I don't know
you could have these two poles right one
is like um you know AI is like you know
it's not going to make progress it's
slow like it's going to take you know
kind of forever to diffuse within the
economy right economic diffusion has
become one of these buzzwords that's
like a a reason why we're not going to
make AI progress or why AI progress
doesn't matter and and you know the
other axis is like we'll get recursive
self-improvement you know the whole
thing you know can't you just draw an
exponential line on the on the curve you
know it's it's we're going to have you
know Dyson spheres around the sun in
like you know
you know so many nanconds after you know
after after we get recursive I mean I'm
completely caricaturing the view here
but like you know there there there are
these two extremes but what we've seen
from from the beginning you know at
least if you look within anthropic
there's this bizarre 10x per year growth
in revenue that we've seen right so you
know in 2023 it was like 0 to 100
million 2024 it was 100 million to a
billion. 2025 it was a billion to like 9
or 10 billion. And then
>> you guys should have just bought like a
billion dollars with your own product so
you could just like have a clean 10V and
and the first month of this year like
that that exponential is you would think
it would slow down but it would like you
know we added another few billion to
like you know to to to we added another
few billion to revenue in January and
and so you know obviously that curve
can't go on forever right you know the
GDP is only so large I don't you know I
I would even guess that it bends that it
bends bends somewhat this here. But like
that is like a fast curve, right? That's
like a that's like a really fast curve.
And I would bet it stays pretty fast
even as the scale goes to the entire
economy. So like I I think we should be
thinking about this middle world where
things are like extremely fast but not
instant where they take time because of
economic diffusion because of the need
to close the loop because you know it's
like this fiddly oh man I have to do
change management within my enterprise
you know I have to like you know uh uh
you know I I I I like I set this up but
but you know I have to change the
security permissions on this in order to
make it actually work or you know, I had
this like old piece of software that,
you know, that like, you know, checks
the model before it's compiled and and
and like released and I have to rewrite
it. And yes, the model can do that, but
I have to tell the model to do that and
it has to it has to take time to do
that. and and and so I think everything
we've seen so far is is compatible with
the idea that there's one fast
exponential that's the the capability of
the model and then there's another fast
exponential that's downstream of that
which is the diffusion of the model into
the economy not instant
not slow much faster than any previous
technology but it has its limits and and
and and this is what we you know when I
when I look inside anthropic when I look
at our customers fast adoption but not
infinitely fast.
>> Um can I try a hot take on you?
>> Yeah.
>> I feel like diffusion is cope that
people use to say when it's like if the
model isn't able to do something they're
like oh but the diffus it's like a
diffusion issue. But then you should use
the comparison to humans. You would
think that the inherent advantages that
AIs have would make diffusion a much
easier problem for new AIs getting
onboarded than new humans getting
onboarded. So an AI can read your entire
Slack and your drive in minutes. They
can share all the knowledge that the
other copy other copies of the same
instance have. You don't have this
adverse selection problem when you're
hiring AI because you can just hire
copies of a vetted AI model. Um hiring a
human is like so much more hassle. And
people hire humans all the time, right?
We pay humans upwards of $50 trillion in
wages because they're useful. Uh even
though it's like in principle it would
be much easier to integrate AI into the
economy than it is to hire humans. I
think like the diffusion I feel like
doesn't really I I think diffusion is
very real and and and and and doesn't
have to you know doesn't exclusively
have to do with limitation limitation
limitations on the AI models like again
there are people who use diffusion to to
you know as kind of a buzzword to say
this isn't a big deal. I'm not talking
about that. I'm not talking about, you
know, AI will diffuse at the speed that
previous I think AI will diffuse much
faster than previous technologies have,
but but not infinitely fast. So, I'll
I'll just give an example of this,
right? Like there's like claude code.
Like claude code is extremely easy to
set up. Um, you know, if you're a
developer, you can kind of just start
using cla code. There is no reason why a
developer at a large enterprise should
not be adopting claude code as quickly
as you know individual developer
developer at a startup and we do
everything we can to promote it right we
sell uh we sell cla code to enterprises
and big enterprises like you know big
big financial companies big
pharmaceutical companies all of them
they're adopting claude code much faster
than enterprises typically adopt new
technology, right? But but again, it
like it it it it takes time like any
given feature or any given product like
claude code or like co-work will get
adopted by the you know the individual
developers who are on Twitter all the
time by the like series A startups
many months faster than than you know
than they will get adopted by like you
know a like large enterprise that does
food sales. Um there are a number of
factors like you have to go through
legal, you have to provision it for
everyone. It has to you know like it has
to pass security and compliance. The
leaders of the company who are further
away from the AI revolution you know are
are forwardlooking but they have to say
oh it makes sense for us to spend 50
million. This is what this claud code
thing is. This is why it helps our
company. This is why it makes us more
productive. And then they have to
explain to the people two levels below.
and they have to say, "Okay, we have
3,000 developers. Like, here's how we're
going to roll it out to our developers."
And we have conversations like this
every day. Like, you know, we are doing
everything we can to make Anthropics
revenue grow 20 or 30x a year instead of
10x a year. Um, you know, and and and
again, you know, many enterprises are
just saying this is so productive like,
you know, we're going to take shortcuts
in our usual procurement process, right?
they're moving much faster than you know
when we tried to sell them just the
ordinary API which many of them use but
quad code is a more compelling product
um but it's not an infinitely compelling
product and I don't think even AGI or
powerful AI or country of geniuses in
the data center will be an infinitely
compelling product it will be a
compelling product enough maybe to get
three or five or 10x a year growth even
when you're in the hundreds of billions
of dollars which is extremely hard to do
and has never been done in history
before but not infinitely fast I I buy
that it would be a slight slowdown and
maybe this is not your claim but
sometimes people talk about this like oh
the capabilities are there but because
of diffusion um otherwise like we're
basically at AGI and then
>> I I I don't believe we're basically at
AGI.
>> I think if you had the country of
geniuses in a data center if your
company didn't
geniuses in a data center we would know
it. We would know it if you had the
country of geniuses in a data center
like everyone in this room would know
it. Everyone in Washington would know
it. like you know people in rural rural
parts might not know it but but but like
we would know it we don't have that now
that that's very clear as Dario was
ending at to get generalization you need
to train across a wide variety of
realistic tasks and environments for
example with a sales agent the hardest
part isn't teaching it to mash buttons
in a specific database in Salesforce
it's training the agent's judgment
across ambiguous situations how do you
sort through a database with thousands
of leads to figure out which ones are
How do you actually reach out? What do
you do when you get ghosted? When an AI
lab wanted to train a sales agent,
Labelbox brought in dozens of Fortune
500 sales people to build a bunch of
different RL environments. They created
thousands of scenarios where the sales
agent had to engage with the potential
customer, which was roleplayed by a
second AI. Limblebox made sure that this
customer AI had a few different
personas. Because when you cold call,
you have no idea who's going to be on
the other end. You need to be able to
deal with a whole range of
possibilities. Limblebox's sales experts
monitored these conversations turn by
turn, tweaking the role playinging agent
to ensure it did the kinds of things an
actual customer would do. Label Box
could iterate faster than anybody else
in the industry. This is super important
because RL is an empirical science. It's
not a solve problem. Labelbox has a
bunch of tools for monitoring agent
performance in real time. This lets
their experts keep coming up with tasks
so that the model stays in the right
distribution of difficulty and gets the
optimal reward signal during training.
Label box can do this sort of thing in
almost every domain. They've got
headphone managers, radiologists, even
airline pilots. So, whatever you're
working on, Labelbox can help. Learn
more at labelbox.com/vorcash.
Coming back to concrete predictions
because I think because there's so many
different things to dis ambiguate, it
can be easy to talk past each other when
we're talking about capabilities. So,
for example, when I interviewed 3 years
ago, I asked her a prediction about what
should we expect 3 years from now. I
think you were right. So you said we
should expect systems which if you talk
to them for the course of an hour it's
hard to tell them apart from a generally
well educated human. Yes.
>> I think you were right about that and I
think spiritually I feel unsatisfied
because my internal expectation was was
that such a system could automate large
parts of white collar work and so it
might be more productive to talk about
the actual end capabilities. You want
such a system.
>> So so I will I will I will basically
tell you what what you know where where
I think we are. So but let me let me ask
it in a very specific question so that
we can figure out exactly what kinds of
capabilities we should expect soon. So
maybe I'll ask about it in the context
of a job I understand well not because
it's the most relevant job but um just
because I can evaluate the claims about
it. Um take video editors right I have
video editors and part of their invol
job involves learning about our
audience's preferences learning about my
preferences and tastes and the different
trade-offs we have and how just over the
course of many months building up this
understanding of context. And so the
skill and ability they have six months
into the job, a model that can pick up
that skill on the job on the fly. When
should we be expect such an AI system?
Yeah. So I guess what you're talking
about is like you know we've we're we're
doing this interview for 3 hours and
then like you know someone's going to
come in, someone's going to edit it,
they're going to be like oh you know you
know I don't know Dario like you know
scratched his head and you know we could
we could edit that out and you magnify
that. there was this like long there was
this like long discussion that like is
less interesting to people and then then
you know then there's other thing that's
like more interesting to people so you
know let's let's let's kind of make this
this edit so you know I think the
country of geniuses in a data center w
will be able to do that the the way it
will be able to do that is you know it
will have general control of a computer
screen right like you know and and and
you'll be able to feed this in and it'll
be able to also use the computer screen
to like go on the web look at all your
previous look at all your previous
interviews like look at what people are
saying on Twitter in response to your
interviews like talk to you ask you
questions talk to your staff look at the
history of kind of edits edits that you
did and from that like do the job um so
I think that's dependent on several
things one that's dependent and and and
and I think this is one of the things
that's actually blocking deployment um
getting to the point on computer use
where the models are really masters at
using the computer right and you know
we've seen this climb in in benchmarks
and benchmarks are always you know
imperfect measures but like you know OS
world is you know went from you know
like 5% a you know like uh I think when
we first re released you know uh uh
computer use like a a year and a quarter
ago it was like maybe 15% I don't
remember exactly but we've climbed from
that to like 65 or 70%. Um and and you
know there may be harder measures as
well but but I think computer use has to
pass a point of reliability. Can I just
ask to follow up on that before you move
to the next point? Um I often for years
I've been trying to build different
internal LLM tools for myself and I
often I have these text in text out
tasks which should be dead center in the
repertoire of these models and yet I
still hire humans to do them just
because it's if it's something like make
identify what the best clips would be in
this transcript and maybe they'll do
like a seven out of 10 job at them but
there's not this ongoing way I can
engage with them to help them get better
at the job the way I could with a human
employee and so that missing ability
even if you saw computer use would still
block my ability to like offload an
actual job to them.
>> Again, there's there's this gets back to
what to to kind to kind of what we were
talking about before with learning on
the job where it's it's very
interesting. You know, I think I think
with the coding agents like I don't
think people would say that learning on
the job is what is what is you know
preventing the coding agents from like
you know doing everything end to end
like they keep they keep getting better.
We have engineers at Enthropic who like
don't write any code. And when I look at
the productivity to your to your
previous question, you know, we have
folks who say this this GPU kernel, this
chip, I used to write it myself. I just
have Claude do it. And so there's this
there's this enormous improvement in
productivity. And I don't know like when
I see Claude code like familiarity with
the code base or like it you know or or
a feeling that the model hasn't worked
at the company for for a year that's not
high up on the list of complaints I see.
And so I think what I'm saying is we're
we're like we're kind of taking a
different path. Don't don't you think
with coding that's because there is an
external scaffold of memory which exists
instantiated in the codebase which I
don't know how many other jobs have
coding made fast progress precisely
because it has this unique um advantage
that other economic activity doesn't
>> but but when you say that what you're
what you're implying is that by reading
the code base into the context I have
everything that the human needed to
learn on the job. So that would be an
example of whether it's written or not,
whether it's available or not, a case
where everything you needed to know, you
got from the context window, right? And
that and that what we think of as
learning like, oh man, I started this
job, it's going to take me 6 months to
understand the codebase, the model just
did it in the context.
>> Yeah. I honestly don't know how to think
about this because there there are
people who qualitatively report what
you're saying. Um there was a meter
study I'm sure you saw last year where
they
>> had experienced developers try to close
uh pull requests in repositories that
they were familiar with and those
developers reported an uplift. They they
reported that they felt more productive
with the use of these models but in fact
if you look at their output and how much
was actually merged back in there's a
20% downlift. They were less productive
as a result of using these models. And
so I'm trying to square the qualitative
feeling that people feel with these
models versus um one in a macro level
where are all these where is this like
renaissance of software and two when
people do these independent evaluations
why are we not seeing the creative
benefits that we would expect
>> within anthropic this is just really
unambiguous right we're under an
incredible amount of commercial pressure
and make it even hard harder for
ourselves because we have all this
safety stuff we do that I think we do
more than than than other companies so
like the the the pressure to survive
economically while also keeping our
values is is just incredible, right?
We're trying to keep this 10x revenue
curve going. There's like there is zero
time for [__] There is zero time
for feeling like we're productive when
we're not. Like these tools make us a
lot more productive. Like why why do you
think we're concerned about competitors
using the tools? because we think we're
ahead of the competitors and like we
don't we don't want to accel we we we we
wouldn't be going through all this
trouble if this was secretly reducing
reducing our productivity like we see
the end productivity every few months in
the form of model launches like there's
no kidding yourself about this like the
models make you more productive
>> um one that is people feeling like
they're more productive is qualitatively
predicted by studies like this but two
if I Look at the end output. Obviously,
you guys are making fast progress. But
the fact, you know, the the the idea was
supposed to be with recursive
self-improvement is that you make a
better AI, the AI helps you build a
better next AI, etc., etc. And what I
see instead, if I look at the you open
AI, deep mind, is that people are just
shifting around the podium every few
months. And maybe you think that stops
because you you won or whatever, but um
but why why are we not seeing the person
with the best coding model have this
lasting advantage if in fact there are
these enormous productivity gains from
the last model?
>> So no, no, no. I I I mean I mean I mean
I think it's all like my my model of the
situation is there's there's an
advantage that's gradually growing. Like
I would say right now the coding models
give maybe I don't know a a like 15
maybe 20% total factor speed up like
that's my view. Um uh and 6 months ago
it was maybe 5%. And so and so it didn't
matter like 5% doesn't register. It's
now just getting to the point where it's
like one of several factors that that
kind of matters and and that's gonna
that's going to keep speeding up. And so
I think 6 months ago like you know there
were several there were several
companies that were at roughly the same
point because uh you know this this
wasn't uh this wasn't a notable factor
but I think it's starting to speed up
more and more. I you know I I would I
would also say there are multiple
companies that you know write models
that are used for code and you know
we're not perfectly good at you know
preventing some of these other companies
from from from using from from from kind
of using our models internally. Um, so,
uh, you know, I think I think everything
we're kind kind of everything we're
seeing is consistent with this kind of,
um, this kind of snowball model where
where, you know, there's no hard. Again,
my my my my theme in all of this is like
all of this is soft takeoff, like soft
smooth exponentials, although the
exponentials are relatively steep. And
so and so we're seeing this snowball
gather momentum where it's like 10% 20%
25% you know for 40% and as you go yeah
AMD doll's law you have to get all the
like things that are preventing you from
from closing the loop out of the way but
like this is one of the biggest
priorities within anthropic. Um
stepping back I think before in the
stack we were talking about um well when
do we get this on the job learning and
it seems like the coding the point you
were making the coding thing is we
actually don't need on the job learning
uh that you can have tremendous
productivity improvements you can have
potentially trillions of dollars of
revenue for AI companies without this
basic human abil maybe that's not your
claim you should clarify um but without
this basic human ability to learn on the
job but I just look at like in in in
most domain of economic activity. People
say, "I hired somebody. They weren't
that useful for the first few months and
then over time they built up the context
understanding. It's actually hard to
define what we're talking about here,
but they they got something and then now
now they're they're a power horse and
they're so valuable to us." And if AI
doesn't develop this ability to learn on
the fly, I'm not I'm a bit skeptical
that we're going to see huge changes to
the world without
>> So I think I think I think two things
here, right? There's the state of the
technology right now um which is again
we have these two stages. We have the
pre-training and RL stage where you
throw you throw a bunch of data and
tasks into the models and then they
generalize. So it's like learning but
it's like learning from more data and
and not you know not learning over kind
of one human or one model's lifetime. So
again this is situated between evolution
and and and human learning. But once you
learn all those skills, you have them.
And and just like with pre-training,
just how the models know more, you know,
if if I look at a pre-trained model, you
know, it knows more about the history of
samurai in Japan than I do. It knows
more about baseball than I do. It knows,
you know, it knows more about, you know,
lowass filters and electronics and, you
know, all all of these things. Its
knowledge is way broader than mine. So I
think I think even even just that um you
know may get us to the point where the
models are better at you know kind of
better at everything and then we also
have again just with scaling the kind of
existing setup we have the in context
learning which I would describe as kind
of like human on the job learning but
like a little weaker and a little short
term like you look at in context
learning the you give the model a bunch
of examples it does get it there's real
learning that happens in context and
like a million tokens is a lot. That's
that's you know that can be days of
human learning right you know if you
think about the model you know you know
kind of read reading reading a million
words you know you know it takes me how
long would it take me to read a million
I mean you know like days or weeks at
least um uh so you have these two things
and and I think these two these two
things within the existing paradigm may
just be enough to get you the country of
geniuses in the data center I don't know
for sure but I think they're going to
get you a large fraction of it there may
be gaps but I I certainly think just as
things are this I believe is enough to
generate trillions of dollars of
revenue. That's one that's all one. Two
is this idea of continual learning. This
idea of a single model learning on the
job. Um I think we're working on that
too and I think there's a good chance
that in the next year or two we also
make we also solve that. Um I I again I
I I I you know I think you get most of
the way there without it. I think the
trillions of dollars of of you know the
the I think the trillions of dollars a
year market maybe all the national
security implications and the safety
implications that I wrote about in
adolescence of technology can happen
without it. But I I I also think we and
I imagine others are working on it. And
I think there's a good chance that that
you know that we get there within the
next year or two. There are a bunch of
ideas. I won't go into all of them in
detail, but um you know, one is just
make the context longer. There's there's
nothing preventing longer context from
working. You just have to train at
longer context and then learn to to
serve them at inference. And both of
those are engineering problems that we
are working on and that I would assume
others are working on as well. Yeah. So
this context length increase, it seemed
like there was a period from 2020 to
2023 where from GPD3 to GP4 Turbo, there
was an increase from like 2,000 context
lines to 128K. I feel like for the next
for the twoish years since then, we've
been in the sameish ballpark. Yeah. And
when model context lines get much longer
than that, people report qualitative
degradation in the ability of the model
to consider that full context. Um, so
I'm curious what you're internally
seeing that makes you think like, oh, 10
million context, 100 million contexts to
get human like six months learning
billion.
>> This isn't a research problem. This is a
this is an engineering and inference
problem, right? If you want to serve
long context, you have to like store
your entire KV cache. You have to, you
know, um, uh, you know, it's it's it's
it's difficult to store all the memory
in the GPUs to juggle the memory around.
I don't even know the detail, you know,
at this point. this is at a level of
detail that that that that I'm no longer
able to follow although you know I I
knew it in the GPD3 era of like you know
these are the weights these are the
activations you have to store um uh but
you know you know these days the whole
thing has flipped because we have models
and and and kind of all of that but um
uh and and this degradation you're
talking about like again without getting
too specific like a question I would ask
is like there's two things there's the
context length you train at and there's
a context length that you serve at if If
you train at a small context length and
then try to serve at a long context
length like maybe you get these
degradations.
>> It's better than nothing. You might
still offer it but you get these
degradations and maybe it's harder to
train at a long context length. Yeah.
So, you know, there's there's a lot I I
I want to at the same time ask about
like maybe some rabbit holes of like
well wouldn't you expect that if you had
to train on longer context length that
would mean that um you're able to get
sort of like less samples in for the
same amount of compute. But before maybe
it's not worth diving deep on that. I I
want to get an answer to the bigger
picture question, which is like, okay,
so
um I don't feel a preference for a human
editor that's been working for me for 6
months versus an AI that's been working
with me for 6 months. What year do you
predict that that will be the case?
>> I my I mean, you know, my guess for that
is, you know, there's there's a lot of
problems that are basically like we can
do this when we have the country of
geniuses in a data center. Um, and so,
you know, my my my my picture for that
is, you know, again, if you if you if
you if you know, if you made me guess,
it's like one to two years, maybe one to
three years. It's really hard to tell. I
have a I have a strong view 99 95% that
like all this will happen in 10 years.
Like that's I think that's just a super
safe bet. And then I have a hunch this
is more like a 50/50 thing that it's
going to be more like 1 to two, maybe
more like 1 to three.
>> So 1 to three years. country of genius
says um and then the slightly less
economically valuable task of editing
videos
I
>> it seems pretty economically valuable
let me tell you it's just there are a
lot of use cases like that right there
are a lot of similar ones so you're
predicting that within 1 to 3 years um
and in gerally enthropic has predicted
that by late 26 early 27 we will have AI
systems that are quote um have the
ability to navigate interfaces available
to humans doing digital work today
intellectual capabilities matching or
exceeding that of Nobel prize winners
and the ability to interface with the
physical world. And then you gave an
interview two months ago with Dealbook
where you were emphasizing your um your
company's more responsible comput
scaling as compared to your competitors.
And I'm trying to square these two views
where if you really believe that we're
going to have a country of geniuses, you
you want as big a data center as you can
get, there's no reason to slow down. The
TAM of a Nobel Prize winner that is
actually can do everything a Nobel Prize
winner can do is like trillions of
dollars. And so I'm trying to square
this conservatism
uh which seems rational if you have more
moderate timelines with your stated
views about AI progress.
>> Yeah. So so it actually all fits
together and and we go back to this fast
but not infinitely fast diffusion. So
like let's say that we're making
progress at this rate. Um you know the
the the technology is making progress
this fast. Again, I have, you know, very
high conviction that like it's going,
you know, the the, you know, we're going
to get there within within a few years.
I have a hunch that we're going to get
there within a year or two. So, a little
uncertainty on the technical side, but
like, you know, pretty pretty strong
confidence that it won't be off by much.
What I'm less certain about is again the
economic diffusion side. Like I really
do believe that we could have models
that are a country of geniuses country
of geniuses in a data center in one to
two years. One question is how many
years after that do the trillions in you
know do do the do the trillions in
revenue start rolling in? Um I don't
think it's guaranteed that it's going to
be immediate. Um, you know, I think it
could be um one year, it could be two
years, I could even stretch it to five
years, although I'm like I'm skeptical
of that. And so we have this uncertainty
which is even if the technology goes as
fast as I suspect that it will, we we
don't know exactly how fast it's going
to drive revenue. We we know it's
coming, but with the way you buy these
data centers, if you're off by a couple
years, that can be ruinous. It is just
like how I wrote, you know, in machines
of loving grace, I said, look, I think
we might get this powerful AI, this
country of genius in the data center.
That description you gave comes from the
machines of loving grace. I said, we'll
get that 2026, maybe 2027. Again, that
is that is my hunch. Wouldn't be
surprised if I'm off by a year or two,
but like that is my hunch. Let's say
that happens. That's the starting gun.
How long does it take to cure all the
diseases, right? That's that's one of
the ways that like drives a huge amount
of of of of economic value, right? Like
you cure you cure every disease. You
know, there's a question of how much of
that goes to the pharmaceutical company
to the AI company, but there's an
enormous consumer surplus because
everyone, you know, assuming we can get
access for everyone, which I care about
greatly. We, you know, we we cure all of
these diseases. How long does it take?
You have to do the biological discovery.
you have to, you know, go you have to,
you know, manufacture the new drug. You
have to, you know, go through the
regulatory process. I mean, we saw this
with like vaccines and COVID, right?
Like it there's just this we we got the
vaccine out to everyone, but it took a
year and a half, right? And and so my
question is, how long does it take to
get the cure for everything, which AI is
the genius that can in theory invent out
to everyone? How long from when that AI
first exists in the lab to when diseases
have actually been cured for everyone
right in in you know we've had a polio
vaccine for 50 years we're still trying
to eradicate it in the most remote
corners of Africa and you know the
Gateson nation is trying as hard as they
can others are trying as hard as they
can but you know that's difficult again
I you know I don't expect most of the
economic diffusion to be as difficult as
that right that's like the most
difficult case but but there's a There's
a real dilemma here and and where I've
settled on it is it will be it will be a
it will be faster than anything we've
seen in the world but it still has its
limits and and so then when we go to
buying data centers you know you again
again again the curve I'm looking at is
okay we you know we've had a 10x a year
increase every year so beginning of this
year we're looking at 10 billion in in
in annual in you know rate of annual ize
revenue at the beginning of the year. We
have to decide how much compute to buy.
Um
and you know it takes a year or two to
actually build out the data centers to
reserve the data centers. So basically
I'm saying like in uh 2027 how much
compute do I get? Well I could assume um
uh that uh the uh revenue will continue
growing 10x a year. So it'll be uh one
uh one uh 100 billion at the end of 2026
and 1 trillion at the end of 2027. And
so I could buy a trillion dollar
actually would be like5 trillion dollars
of compute because it would be a
trillion dollar a year for for five
years, right? I could buy a trillion
dollars of compute that starts at the
end of 2027. And if my if my revenue is
not a trillion dollars, if it's even
800 billion, there's no force on earth,
there's there's no hedge on earth that
could stop me from going bankrupt if I
if I buy that much compute. And and so
even though a part of my brain wonders
if it's going to keep growing 10x, I
can't buy a trillion dollars a year of
compute in in in in in in in
2027. If I'm just off by a year in that
rate of growth, or if the the growth
rate is 5x a year instead of 10x a year,
then then you know that you go bankrupt.
Um and and and so you end up in a world
where you know you're supporting
hundreds of billions not trillions and
you accept you accept some risk that
there's so much demand that you can't
support the revenue and you accept still
some risk that you know you got it wrong
and it still slow and so when I talked
about behaving responsibly what I meant
actually was not the absolute amount
that that actually was not um you know I
think it is true we're spending somewhat
less than some of the other players.
It's actually the other things like have
we been thoughtful about it or are we
yoloing and saying, "Oh, we're going to
do $100 billion here, hundred billion
dollars there." I kind of get the
impression that, you know, some of the
other companies have not written down
the spreadsheet that they don't really
understand the risk they're taking.
They're just kind of doing stuff because
it sounds cool. Um uh and and we've
thought carefully about it, right? We're
an enterprise business. Therefore, you
know, we can rely more on revenue. It's
less fickle than consumer. We have
better margins, which is the buffer
between buying too much and buying too
little. And so, I think we bought an
amount that allows us to capture pretty
strong upside worlds. It won't capture
the full 10x a year. Um, and things
would have to go pretty badly for us to
be for us to be in financial trouble.
So, I think we've thought carefully and
we've made that balance. And and that's
what I mean when I say that we're being
responsible. Okay. So, it seems like um
it's possible that we're we actually
just have different definitions of the
country of a genius in a data center
because when I think of like actual
human geniuses, an actual country of
human geniuses in a data center, I'm
like
I would happily buy $5 trillion worth of
compute to run actual country of human
genius in a data center. So, let's say
JP Morgan or Madna or whatever doesn't
want to use them. Also, I've got a
country of geniuses. they they'll start
their own company and if like they they
can't start their own company and
they're bottlenecked by clinical trials.
It is worth stating with clinical trials
like most clinical trials fail because
the drug doesn't work. There's not
efficacy, right?
>> And I make exactly that point in in
machines of love and grace. I say the
clinical trials are going to go much
faster than we're used to, but not not
instant not infinitely fast.
>> And then suppose it takes a year to for
the clinical trials to work out so that
you're getting revenue from that and you
can make more drugs. Okay. Hey, well,
you've got a country of geniuses and
you're an AI lab and you have you could
use uh many more AI researchers. Um, you
also think that there's these like
self-reinforcing gains from, you know,
smart people working on AI tech. So,
like, okay, you can have the right you
can have the data center working on like
AI progress.
>> Is there more gains from buying
>> like substantially more gains from
buying a trillion dollars a year of
compute versus $300 billion a year of
compute? If your competitor is buying a
trillion, yes, there is.
>> Well, no, there's some gain, but then
but again, there's this chance that they
go bankrupt before,
you know, be again, if you're off by
only a year, you destroy yourselves.
That's the That's the balance. We're
buying a lot. We're buying a hell of a
lot. Like, we're not we're you know,
we're buying an amount that's comparable
to that that, you know, the the the the
biggest players in the game are buying.
Um but but if you're asking me why why
haven't we signed you know 10 10
trillion of compute starting in starting
in mid 2027 first of all it can't be
produced there isn't that much in the
world um uh but but second um what if
the country of geniuses comes but it
comes in mid 2028 instead of mid2027 you
go bankrupt. So if your projection is 1
to 3 years, it seems like you should
want $10 trillion of compute by um 2029
2020 maybe 2020 latest
>> like I mean you know you are like it
seems like even in your the longest
version of the timelines you state the
compute you are ramping up to build
doesn't seem
>> in accordance what what makes you think
that
>> well as you said you would want the 10
trillion the human wages let's say are
um on the order of 50 trillion a year
>> if you look at so so I won't I won't
talk about entropic in particular but if
you talk about the industry like um the
amount of compute the industry had you
know the the the the amount of compute
the industry is building this year is
probably in the you know I don't know
very low tens of you know call it 10 15
gawatts next year I you know it goes up
by roughly 3x a year so like next year's
30 or 40 gigawatts and um 2028 might be
100 202 might like three 300 gigawatts
and like each gigawatt costs like um
maybe 10 I mean I'm doing the math in my
head but each gigawatt costs maybe 10
billion you know order 10 to 15 billion
a year so you know you kind of you you
know you put that all together and
you're getting about about what you
described you're getting multiple
trillions a year by 2028 or 2029 so
you're you're getting exactly that
you're getting you're getting exactly
what you predict
>> um that's for the industry
>> that that's for the industry That's
right. So suppose anthropics comput
keeps 3xing a year and then by like 27
you have uh or 27 28 you have 10 gawatt
and like multiply that by as you say um
10 billion. So then it's like 100
billion a year but then you were saying
the TAM by 2028.
>> I I don't want to give exact numbers for
anthropic but but these numbers are too
small. These numbers are too small.
>> Okay. Interesting. I'm really proud that
the puzzles I've worked on with Jane
Street have resulted in them hiring a
bunch of people for my audience. Well,
they're still hiring and they just sent
me another puzzle. For this one, they
spent about 20,000 GPU hours training
backd doors into three different
language models. Each one has a hidden
prompt that elicits completely different
behavior. You just have to find the
trigger. This is particularly cool
because finding backd doorors is
actually an open question in Frontier AI
research. Enthropic actually released a
couple of papers about sleep agents and
they showed that you can build a simple
classifier on the residual stream to
detect when a back door is about to
fire, but they already knew what the
triggers were because they built them.
Here you don't. And it's not feasible to
check the activations for all possible
trigger phrases. Unlike the other
puzzles they made for this podcast, Jane
Street isn't even sure this one is
solvable, but they've set aside $50,000
for the best attempts and write-ups. The
puzzle's live at
janestreet.com/themarcash
and they're accepting submissions until
April 1st. All right, back to Dario.
You've told investors that you plan to
be profitable starting 28 and this is
the year where we're like potentially
getting the country of geniuses at a
data center and you know this is like
going to now unlock all this uh progress
and uh medicine and uh health and etc
etc and new technologies. Wouldn't this
be a particular exactly the time where
you'd like want to reinvest in the
business and build bigger countries so
they can make more discoveries?
>> So I mean profit profitability is this
kind of like weird thing in this field.
I I like like I don't think I I don't
think in this field profitability is
actually a measure of
uh um you know kind of spending down
versus investing in the business like
let's let's just let's just take a model
of this. I actually think profitability
happens when you underestimated the
amount of demand you were going to get
and loss happens when you overestimated
the amount of demand you were going to
get. Um because you're buying the data
centers ahead of time. So think about it
this way. Um ideally you would like and
again these are stylized facts. These
numbers are not exact for I'm just
trying to make a toy model here. Let's
say half of your compute is for training
and half of your compute is for
inference. Um, and you know the
inference has some gross margin that's
like more than 50%. Um, and so what that
means is that if you were in steady
state, you build a data center, if you
knew exactly exactly exactly the demand
you were getting, you would um uh uh uh
you know you would you would you you
would you would get a certain amount of
revenue. say, I don't know, uh, uh,
let's say you pay $100 billion a year
for compute and on $50 billion a year,
you support $150 billion on of of of of
revenue and the other 50 billion the
other 50 billion are used for training.
Um, so basically, you're profitable. You
make you make you make $50 billion of
profit. Those are the economics of the
industry today or or sorry, not today,
but like that's where we're where we're
projecting forward in a year or two. The
only thing that makes that not the case
is if you get less demand than 50
billion um then you have more than 50%
of your your data center for research
and you're not profitable. So you you
know you train stronger models but
you're like not profitable. Um if you uh
get more demand than you thought then
your research gets squeezed um but uh
you know you're you're you're kind of
able to support more inference and
you're more profitable. So it's maybe
I'm not explaining it well but but the
thing I'm trying to say is you decide
the amount of compute first and then you
have some target desire of of inference
versus versus training but that gets
determined by demand. It doesn't get
determined by
>> what I'm hearing is the reason you're
predicting profit is that you are
systematically underestimate uh
underinvesting in compute right because
if you actually
>> No I'm saying I'm saying it's hard to
predict. So, so these things about 2028
and when it will happen, that's our
that's our attempt to do the best we can
with investors, all of this stuff is
really uncertain because of the cone of
uncertainty. Like we could be profitable
in 2026 if the if the revenue grows fast
enough and then and then um uh you know
if we if we overestimate or
underestimate the next year that could
swing wildly. Like I I I what I'm trying
to get at is you have a model in your
head of like the the business invests
invests invests invests gets scale and
and and and kind of then becomes
profitable. There's a single point at
which things turn around. I don't think
the economics of this industry work that
way.
>> I see. So if I'm understanding
correctly, you're saying because of the
discrepancy between the amount of
compute we should have gotten and the
amount of compute we got, we we were
like sort of forced to make profit. But
that that doesn't mean we're going to
continue making profit. But we're going
to like reinvest the money because well
now AI has made so much progress and we
want the bigger country of geniuses and
so then back into uh revenue is high but
losses are also high. If we if we
predict if every year we predict exactly
what the demand is going to be will be
profitable every year because grow
because spending spending 50% of your
compute on on 50% of your compute on
research roughly um plus a gross margin
that's higher than 50%. And and correct
demand prediction leads to profit.
That's the prof that's that's the
profitable business model that I think
is kind of like there but like obsc
obscured by these like building ahead
and prediction errors. I
>> I guess you're treating the 50% as a uh
as a sort of like you know just like a
given constant whereas you in fact if
you if AI progress is fast and you can
increase the progress by scaling up more
you just have more than 50% and not make
profit.
>> Here's what I'll say. You might want to
scale up it more. you might want to
scale it up more, but but but you know,
remember the log returns to scale,
right? If if 70% would get you a very
little bit of a smaller model through a
factor of of 1.4x, right? like that
extra $20 billion is is is is you know
that each each dollar there is worth
much less to you because because the log
linear setup and so you might find that
it's better to invest that that that
that it's better to invest that $20
billion in you know in in serving
inference or in hiring engineers who are
who who are kind of better who are who
are kind of better who are kind of
better at what they're doing. So the the
reason I said 50% that's not that's not
exactly our target. It's not exactly
going to be 50%. It will probably vary
vary over time. What what I'm saying is
the the the the like log linear return
what it leads to is you spend of order
one fraction of the business, right?
Like not 5% not 95%. And then it then
you know then then then you get
diminishing returns because of the
because the walls that I'm like
convincing Dario to like believe in AI
progress or something but like uh okay
you you don't invest in research because
it has diminishing returns but you
invest in the other things you mentioned
>> again again we're talking about
diminishing returns
after you're spending 50 billion a year
right like this is a point I'm sure you
would make but like diminishing returns
on a genius is could be quite high and
more generally like what is profit put
in a market economy profit is basically
saying the other companies in the market
can like do more things with this money
that I
>> yeah put aside entropic I'm just trying
to like because I you know I don't want
to give information about entropic is
why I'm giving these stylized numbers
but like let's just derive the
equilibrium of the industry right I
think the so so so why doesn't everyone
spend 100% of their um uh you know 100%
of their compute on training and not
serve any customers right it's because
if They didn't get any revenue. They
couldn't raise money. They couldn't do
comput deals. They couldn't buy more
compute the next year. So, there's going
to be an equilibrium where every every
company spends less than 100% on on on
on on training and certainly less than
100% on inference. It should be clear
why you don't just serve the current
models and and you know and and and
never train another model because then
you don't have any demand because you
because you'll fall behind. So, there's
some equilibrium. It's it's not going to
be 10%, it's not going to be 90%. Let's
just say as a stylized fact it's 50%.
That's what I'm getting at. And and and
I think we're going to be in a position
where that equilibrium of how much you
spend on training is less than the gross
margins that that you're that that that
you're able to get on compute. And so
the the the the underlying economics are
profitable. The problem is you have this
this hellish demand prediction problem
when you're when you're buying the next
year of compute and you might guess
under and be very profitable but have no
compute for research or you might guess
over and you know you're you're you're
um uh you you are not profitable and you
have all the compute compute for
research in the world.
>> Does does that make sense just as a
dynamic model of the industry? May maybe
stepping back I'm like uh I I I'm not
saying I I think the country of genius
is going to come in two years and
therefore you should buy this compute.
Um to me what you're saying the end
conclusion you're arriving at makes a
lot of sense but uh that's because like
oh it seems like country geniuses is
hard and there's a long way to go. And
so the stepping back the thing I'm
trying to get at is more like
it seems like your worldview is
compatible with somebody who says uh
we're like 10 years away from a world in
which like we're generating trillions of
dollars.
>> That's just that's just not my view.
That is that is not my view. Like I I so
so I'll like I'll like make another
prediction. It is hard for me to see
that that there won't be trillions of
dollars in revenue before 2030. Um like
uh I can I can construct a plausible
world. It takes maybe three years. So
that that you know that would be the end
of what I think it's plausible like in
2028 we get the the real country of
geniuses in a data center. You know the
revenue's been been go you know the
revenue has been going into the maybe is
is in the low hundreds of billions by by
by by 2028 and and and then the country
of geniuses accelerates it to trillions,
you know, and and we're basically we're
basically on the slow end of diffusion.
It takes two years to get to the
trillions. that that that would that
that that would be the world where it
takes until that would be the world
where it takes until 2030. I I I suspect
even composing the technical exponential
and the diffusion exponential will get
there before 2030. So you laid out a
model where anthropic makes profit
because it seems like fundamentally
we're in a computed world and so it's
like eventually we keep growing comput.
Well, I think I think the way the profit
comes is again and and you know, let's
let's just abstract the whole industry
here. Like we have a you know, let's
just imagine we're we're in like an
economics textbook. We have a small
number of firms each can invest a
limited amount in you know or or or like
each can invest some fra fraction in
R&D. They have some marginal cost to
serve. the margins on that the profit
mar the gross profit margins on that
marginal cost are like very high because
because because because inference is
efficient there's some competition but
the models are also differentiated
there's some there's some um you know
companies will compete to push their
research budgets up but like because
there's a small number of players you
know we have the what is it called in
the corno equilibrium I think is what
the what the small number of firm
equilibrium is it the point is it it
doesn't equilibrate to perfect
competition with with with with with
with
zero margins. If there's like three
firms, if there's three firms in the
economy, all are kind of independently
behaving behaving rationally, it doesn't
equilibrate to zero.
>> Um, help me understand that because
right now we do have three leading firms
and they're not making profit. Um, and
so what what uh yeah, what what is
changing? Yeah. So the the again the
gross margins right now are very
positive. What's happen what what's
happening is a combination of two
things. One is we're still in the
exponential scale up phase of compute.
Um, so what basically what that means is
we're training like a model gets
trained, it costs, you know, let's say a
model got trained that costs uh a
billion last year. Um, and then uh this
year it produced uh $4 billion of
revenue and cost $1 billion to to uh to
to to inference from. Um so you know
again I'm using stylized number here but
you know that would be 75% you know
gross gross gross margins and you know
this this 25% tax. So that model as a
whole makes $2 billion. Um but at the
same time we're spending $10 billion to
train the next model because there's an
exponential scale up and so the company
loses money. Each model makes money but
the company loses money. The equilibrium
I'm talking about is an equilibrium
where we have the country of geniuses.
We have the country of geniuses in a
data center, but that that um model
training scale up has equilibrated more.
Maybe maybe it's still it's still going
up. We're still trying to predict the
demand, but it's more it's more um
leveled out. Um I'll give you a couple
things there. So, um let's start with
the current world. Um in the current
world, you're right that as you said
before, if you treat each individual
model as a company, it's profitable. But
of course, a big part of the production
function of being a frontier lab is
training the next model, right? So if
you didn't do that, then you'd make
profit for two months and then you
wouldn't have margins because you
wouldn't have the best model and then so
yeah, you can make profits for two
months on the current at some point that
reaches the biggest scale that it can
reach and then and then in equilibrium
we have algorithmic improvements, but
we're spending roughly the same amount
to train the next model as as as we
spent to train the current model. Um so
this equilibrium relies
>> I mean at some point at some at at some
point you run out of money in the
economy
>> uh a fixed lump of labor files the
economy is going to grow right that's
one of your predictions we're going to
have but this is but this is another
example of the theme I was talking about
which is that the economy will grow much
faster with AI than I think it ever has
before but it's not like right now the
compute is growing 3x a year I don't
believe the economy is going to grow
300% % a year. Like I said this in
Machines of Loving Grace, like I think
we we may get 10 or 20% per year growth
in the economy, but we're not going to
get 300% growth in the economy. So I
think I think in the end, you know, if
if compute becomes the majority of what
the economy produces, it's it's going to
be capped by that. So okay, now let's
assume a model where compute stays
capped. Yeah. Um, the world where
Frontier Labs are making money is one
where they continue to make um, fast
progress because fundamentally your
margin is limited by how good the
alternative is. And so you are able to
make money because you have a frontier
model. Um, if you didn't have frontier
model, you wouldn't be making money. Um,
>> and and so this this model requires
there never to be a steady state like
forever and ever you keep making more
progress.
>> I don't think that's true. True. I mean
I I feel feel like we're we're like
we're talk we're we're you know I feel
like this is an economics uh like uh you
know this is like an economics class you
know quote we never stop talking about
economics.
>> We never we never stop talking about
economics. So no but but there there are
worlds in which um you know there so I I
don't think this field's going to be a I
don't think this field's going to be a
monopoly. All my lawyers never want me
to say the word monopoly. Um but I don't
think this field's going to be a
monopoly. But but you do get you get
industries in which there are small
number of players, not one but a small
number of players. And ordinarily like
the the way you get monopolies like
Facebook or or Meta, I always call them
Facebook but um uh uh is is these kind
of is these kind of these kind of
network effects. The way you get
industries in which there are small
number of players are very high costs of
entry, right? Um so you know uh cloud is
like this. I think cloud is a good
example of this. You have three maybe
four players within cloud. I think I
think that's the same for AI. Three
maybe four. Um uh and the reason is that
it's it's so expensive. It requires so
much expertise and so much capital to
like run a cloud company, right? And so
you have to put up all this capital. And
then in addition to putting up all this
capital, you have to get all of this
other stuff that like, you know,
requires a lot of skill to, you know, to
make it happen. And so it's like if you
go to someone and you're like, I want to
disrupt this industry. Here's hundred
billion dollars. You're like, okay, I'm
putting $100 billion and also betting
that you can do all these other things
that these people have been doing
>> decrease the profit in the industry.
>> Yeah. And and and then and then the
effect of your entering is the profit
margins go down. And so you know we have
equilibria like this all the time in the
economy where we have a few we have a
few players profits are not astronomical
margins are not astronomical but they're
they're not zero right um uh and and you
know I think I think that's what we see
on cloud cloud is very undifferentiated
models are more differentiated than
cloud right like everyone knows claude
is claude claude is good at different
things than GPT is good at is than than
Gemini is good at and it's not just
claude's good at coding GP PT is good at
you know math and reasoning you know um
uh it's more subtle than that like
models are good at different types of
coding models have different styles like
I think I think these things are
actually you know quite different from
each other and so I would expect more
differentiation than you see in in um
cloud now there there actually is a uh
counter there there there is one
counterargument um and that
counterargument is that if all of that
the process of producing models
um becomes uh if AI models can do that
themselves, then that could spread
throughout the economy. But that is not
an argument for commoditizing AI models
in general. That's kind of an argument
for commoditizing the whole economy at
once. Um I don't know what what quite
happens in that world where basically
anyone can do anything, anyone can build
anything, and there's like no mode
around anything at all. I mean, I don't
know, maybe we want that world like like
maybe that's the maybe that's the end
state here. like maybe maybe um you know
when maybe when when when kind of AI
models can do you know when when when
when AI models can do everything if
we've solved all the safety and security
problems like you know that's one of the
one of the one of the mechanisms for for
uh you know um uh uh you know just just
kind of the economy flattening itself
again but but that's kind of like post
like far post country of geniuses in a
data center. Um maybe a finer way to put
that uh potential point is one um it
seems like AI research is especially
loaded on raw intellectual power which
will be especially abundant in a world
with AGI and two if you just look at the
world today there's very few
technologies that seem to be diffusing
as fast as um as AI algorithmic progress
and so that does hint that this industry
is sort of structurally diffusive
So I think coding is going fast but I
think AI research is a supererset of
coding and there are aspects of it that
are not going fast. Um uh but I but I do
think again once we get coding once we
get AI models going fast then you know
AI you know that will speed up the
ability of AI models to kind to kind of
do everything else. So I think while
coding is going fast now I think once
the AI models are building the next AI
models and building everything else the
kind of whole the whole economy will
kind of go at the same pace. I am I am
worried geographically though. I'm a
little worried that like just proximity
to AI having heard about AI um uh that
that that may be one differentiator. And
so when I said the like you know 10 or
20% growth rate a worry I have is that
the growth rate could be like 50% in
Silicon Valley and you know parts of the
world that are kind of socially
connected to Silicon Valley and you know
not that much faster than its current
pace elsewhere and I think that'd be a
pretty messed up world. So I one of the
things I think about a lot is how to
prevent that.
>> Yeah. Do you think that once we have uh
this country of geniuses in a data
center that robotics is sort of quickly
solved afterwards because it seems like
a big problem with robotics is that um a
human can learn how to teleoperate
current hardware but current AI models
can't at least not not in a way that's
super productive and so if we have this
ability to learn like a human should it
solve robotics immediately as well
>> I don't think it's dependent on learning
like a human it could happen in
different ways again we could have
trained the model on many different
video games which like robotic controls
or many different simulated robotics
environments or just you know train them
to control computer screens and they
learn to generalize. So it will happen.
It's not necessarily dependent on
humanlike learning. Humanlike learning
is one way it could happen. If the
model's like, "Oh, I pick up a robot. I
don't know how to use it. I learn that.
That could happen because we discovered
discovering continual learning." That
could also happen because we train the
model on a bunch of environments and
then it generalized. Or it could happen
because the model learns that in the
context length. It it doesn't actually
matter which way. If we go back to the
discussion we had like like an hour ago,
that type of thing can happen in that
type of thing can happen in several
different ways. Um uh uh but but I do
think when for for whatever reason the
models have those skills then uh
robotics will be revolutionized both the
design of robots because the models will
be much better than humans at that um
and also the the ability to kind of
control robots. So we'll get better at
the physical building the physical
hardware building the physical robots
and we'll also get better at controlling
it. Now you know does that mean the
robotics industry will also be
generating trillions of dollars of
revenue? My answer there is yes but
there will be the same extremely fast
but not infinitely fast diffusion. So
will robotics be be revolutionized?
Yeah, maybe tack on another year or two.
>> That's that's my that's the way I think
about these things.
Uh there's a general skepticism about
extremely fast progress. Like here
here's my view which is like it sounds
like you are going to solve continual
learning one way or another within a
matter of years. But just as people
weren't talking about continual learning
a couple years ago and then we realized
oh why aren't these models as useful as
they could be right now even though they
are clearly passing the touring test and
are experts in so many different
domains. Maybe it's this thing. And then
we solve this thing and we realize
actually there's another
um another thing that human intelligence
can do. that's a basis of human labor
that these models can't do. And then so
why not think there will be more things
like this? Why I think that like we're
we're you know we've like found the
pieces of human intelligence.
>> Well well to be clear I mean I think
continual learning as I've said before
might not be a barrier at all right like
like you know I think I think we maybe
just get there by pre-training
generalization and and and and and and
RL generalization. Like I I think there
just might not be um there basically
might not be such a thing at all. In
fact, I would point to the history in in
ML of people coming up with things that
are barriers that end up kind of
dissolving within the big blob of
compute, right? That, you know, people
talked about, you know,
you know, how do you have, you know, how
do how do your models keep track of
nouns and verbs and, you know, how do
they, you know, they can understand
semant syntactically, but they can't
understand semantically. You know, it's
only statistical correlations. You can
understand a paragraph, but you can't
understand a word. There's reasoning,
you can't do reasoning, but then
suddenly it turns out you can do code
and math very well at all. So
>> I I think there actually there's there's
actually a stronger history of some of
these things seeming like a big deal and
then and then kind of and then kind of
dissolving. Some of them are real. I
mean the need for data is real. May
maybe continual
continual learn continual learning is a
real thing. But again, I would ground us
in something like code. Like I think we
may get to the point in like a year or
two where the models can just do end to
end. Like that's a whole task. That's a
whole sphere of human activity that that
we're just saying models can do it now.
Um when you say end to end, do you mean
um setting technical direction,
understanding the context of the
problem, etc.? Okay. Yes. I mean all of
that. Interesting. I mean that that is I
feel like AGI complete um which maybe is
internally consistent but um it's not
like saying 90% of code or 100% of code
it's like no no the other parts of the
>> no no I gave this I gave the spectrum
90% of code 100% of code 90% of N10
suite 100% of N10 suite new tasks are
created for SWES eventually those get
done as well but it's a long spectrum
there but we're traversing the spectrum
very quickly
>> um I do think it's funny that I I've
seen a couple podcasts you've done where
um the host will be like a butcher wrote
the essay about the control learning
thing and it always makes me crack up
because you're like you know you've been
an AI researcher for like 10 years and
I'm sure there's like some uh feeling of
like okay so podcaster wrote an essay
like every interview I get asked about
it
>> you know the the truth of the truth of
the matter is that we're all trying to
figure this out together right there
there are some ways in which I'm able to
see things that others aren't these days
That probably has more to do with like I
can see a bunch of stuff within
Enthropic and have to make a bunch of
decisions than I have any great research
insight that that that others don't.
Right? I you know I'm running a 2500
person company. Like it's it's actually
pretty hard for me to have have concrete
research insight you know much harder
than you know than than it would have
been you know 10 years ago or or you
know or even two or three years ago. Um,
as we go towards a world of a full drop
in remote worker replacement, does a API
pricing model still make the most sense?
And if not, what is the correct way to
price AGI or serve AGI?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think there's going to
be a bunch of different business models
here sort of all at once that are going
to be that are going to be experimented
with. Um, I I I actually do think that
the the API
um
model is is more durable than many
people think. Um, one way I think about
it is if the technology is kind of
advancing quickly, if it's advancing
exponentially, what that means is
there's there's always kind of like a
surface area of of kind of new use cases
that have been developed in in the last
uh in the last three months. And any
kind of product surface you put in place
is always at risk of sort of becoming
irrelevant, right? Any given product
surface probably makes sense for, you
know, a range of capabilities of the
model, right? The the chatbot is already
running into limitations of, you know,
making it smarter doesn't really help
the average consumer that much. But I
don't think that's a limitation of AI
models. I don't think that's evidence
that, you know, the models are are the
models are good enough and they're
they're, you know, them getting better
doesn't matter to the economy. It
doesn't matter to that particular
product. Um, and and so I think the
value of the API is the API always
offers an opportunity, you know, very
close to the bare metal to build on what
the latest thing is. Um, and so there,
you know, there's there's there's kind
of always going to be this, you know,
this this kind of front of new startups
and new ideas that weren't possible a
few months ago and are possible because
the model is advancing. And and so I I
actually I I I kind of actually predict
that we are it's going to exist
alongside other models, but we're always
going to have the API business model
because there's there's always going to
be a need for a thousand different
people to try experimenting with the
model in different way and a hundred of
them become startups and 10 of them
become big successful startups and you
know two or three really end up being
the the way that people use the model of
a of a given generation. So I I
basically think it's always going to
exist. At the same time, I'm sure
there's going to be other models as
well. Like not every token that's output
by the model is worth the same amount.
Think about, you know, how how what is
the value of the tokens that are like,
you know, that the model outputs when
someone, you know, call, you know,
someone, you know, calls them up and
says, "My Mac isn't working or
something." You know, the model's like,
"Restart it, right?" Yeah.
>> And like you know someone hasn't heard
that before but like you know the model
said that like 10 million times you know
that maybe that's worth like a dollar or
a few cents or something. Um whereas if
uh the model you know the model goes to
you know one of the one of the
pharmaceutical companies and it says oh
you know this molecule you're developing
you should take the aromatic ring from
that end of the molecule and put it on
that end of the molecule. Um and and you
know if you do that wonderful things
will happen. um uh like like those
tokens could be worth, you know, tens of
millions of dollars, right? Um uh so so
I think we're definitely going to see
business models that that recognize
that, you know, at some point we're
going to see, you know, pay for results
or you know, in some in some form or we
may see forms of compensation that are
like labor um uh you know, that that
kind of work by the hour. Um I I I you
know, I don't Oh, I think I think I
think because it's a new industry, a lot
of things are going to be tried and I
you know I don't know what will turn out
to be the right thing.
>> Um what I find uh I I take your point
that people will have to try things to
figure out what is the best way to use
this blob of intelligence. But what I
find striking is clawed code. So I don't
think in the history of startups there
has been a single application that has
been as hotly competed in as coding
agents and um and and cloud code is a
category leader here and that seems
surprising to me like it doesn't seem
intrinsically like enthropic had to
build this and I wonder if you have an
accounting of why it had to be enthropic
or why how enthropic ended up building
an application in addition to the model
underlying it. Yeah. So it actually
happened in a pretty simple way which is
we had our own um you know we had our
coding models which were good at coding
and and you know around the beginning of
2025 I said I I think the time has come
where you can have non-trivial
acceleration of your own research um if
you're an AI company by using these
models and of course you know we you
need an interface you need a harness to
use them and so I encourage people
internally you know I didn't say this is
one thing that you know you have to use.
I I just said people should experiment
with this and then you know this thing I
think it might have been originally
called claude CLI and then the name
eventually got changed to cloud code
internally um was the thing that kind of
everyone was using and it was seeing
fast internal adoption and I looked at
it and I said probably we should launch
this externally right um uh you know
it's it's seen such fast adoption within
anthropic like you know like you know
coding is a lot of what we do and and so
you know we have a we have audience of
many many hundreds of people that's in
some ways at least representative of the
external audience. So it looks like we
already have product market fit. Let's
launch this thing. Um and and then we
launched it and and and I think you know
just just the fact that we ourselves are
kind of developing the model and we
ourselves know what we most need to use
the model. I think it's it's kind of
creating this feedback loop.
>> I see. in the sense that you let's say a
developer at Enthropic is like ah it it
would be better if it was better at this
X thing and then you bake that into the
next model that you build that that's
that's one version of it but but then
there's just the ordinary product
iteration of like you know we have a
bunch of we have a bunch of coders
within anthropic like we um you know
they like use cloud code every day and
so we get fast feedback that was more
important in the early days now of
course there are millions of people
using it um and so we get a bunch of
external feedback as well. But it's, you
know, it's just great to be able to get,
you know, kind of kind of uh um fast
fast internal feedback. You know, I
think this is the reason why we launched
a coding model and, you know, didn't
launch a pharmaceutical company, right?
It you know, you know, my background is
in in my background's in in like
biology, but like we don't have any of
the resources that are needed to launch
a pharmaceutical company. So, there's
been a ton of hype around OpenClaw, and
I wanted to check it out for myself.
I've got a day coming up this weekend
and I don't have anything planned yet.
So, I gave Open Claw a Mercury debit
card. I set a couple hundred limit and I
said, "Surprise me." Okay, so here's the
Mac Mini it's on. And besides having
access to my Mercury, it's totally
quarantined. They actually felt quite
comfortable giving it access to a debit
card because Mercury makes it super easy
to set up guardrails. I was able to
customize permissions, cap the spend,
and restrict the category of purchases.
I wanted to make sure the debit card
worked, so I asked OpenCloud to just
make a test transaction and decided to
donate a couple bucks to Wikipedia.
Besides that, I have no idea what's
going to happen. I will report back on
the next episode about how it goes. In
the meantime, if you want a personal
banking solution that can accommodate
all the different ways that people use
their money, even experimental ones like
this one, visit mercury.com/personal.
Mercury is a fintech company, not an
FDIC insured bank. Banking services
provided through Choice Financial Group
and column NA members FDIC. You know,
she thinks we're getting coffee and
walking around the neighborhood.
Um let me ask you about now um making AI
go well. Um it seems like whatever
vision we have about how AI goes well
has to be compatible with two things.
One is the ability to build and run AIs
is diffusing extremely rapidly and two
is that the population of AIS the amount
we have in their intelligence will also
increase very rapidly and that means
that lots of people will be able to
build huge populations of misaligned AIs
or uh AIs which are just like companies
which are trying to increase their uh
footprint or have weird psyches like
Sydney Bing but now they're superhuman.
What is a vision for a world in which we
have an equilibrium that is compatible
with lots of different AI some of which
are misaligned running around?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I think you know in the
adolescence of technology I was kind of
you know skeptical of like the balance
of power but I I think I was
particularly skeptical of or the thing I
was specifically skeptical of is you
have like three or four of these
companies like kind of all building
models that are kind of derive you know
sort of sort of um uh uh like derived
from the like derived from the same
thing and uh you know that that these
would check each or or even that kind of
you know any number of them would would
would would uh would would check each
other like we might live in a offense
dominant world where you know like one
person or one AI model is like smart
enough to do something that like causes
damage for everything else. Um I think
in the I mean in the short run we have a
limited number of players now. So we can
start by within the limited number of
players we uh you know we kind of you
know we we need to put in place the you
know the safeguards. We need to make
sure everyone does the right alignment
work. we need to make sure everyone has
bio classifiers like you know those are
those are kind of the immediate things
we need to do. I agree that you know
that that doesn't solve the problem in
the long run particularly if the ability
of AI models to make other AI models
proliferates then you know the the whole
thing can kind of um you know can become
harder to solve. You know I think I
think in the long run we need some
architecture of governance right some
some architecture of governance that
preserves human freedom but but kind of
also allows us to like you know govern
the the very large number of kind of um
you know uh uh uh human systems AI
systems hybrid hybrid human human um you
know hybrid hybrid human AI like you
know companies or or like or like or
like economic units. So, you know, we're
we're going to need to think about like,
you know, how do we how do we protect
the world against, you know,
bioteterrorism? How do we protect the
world against like, you know, against
like against like mirror life? Like, you
know, pro probably we're going to need
to, you know, need some kind of like AI
monitoring system that like moni, you
know, kind of monitors for for all these
things, but then we need to build this
in a way that like, you know, preserves
civil liberties and like our
constitutional rights. So I think just
just as is as is anything else like it's
it's like a new security landscape with
a new set of you know a new set of tools
and a new set of vulnerabilities. And I
I think my worry is if we had a hundred
years for this to happen all very
slowly, we'd get used to it, you know,
like we've gotten used to like, you
know, the presence of, you know, the
presence of explosives in society or
like the, you know, the presence of
various um, you know, like new weapons
or the, you know, the pre the presence
of video cameras. Um, we would get used
to it over over over over 100 and we'd
develop governance mechanisms. We'd make
our mistakes. My my worry is just that
this is happening all so fast and so I
think maybe we need to do our thinking
faster about how to make these
governance mechanisms work.
>> Yeah, it seems like in a offense
dominant world
over the course of the next century. So
the idea is AI is making the progress
that would happen over the next century
happen in some period of 5 to 10 years.
But we would still need the same
mechanisms or balance of power would be
similarly intractable even if humans
were the only game in town. Um, and so I
guess we have the advice of AI. We it
fundamentally doesn't seem like a
totally different ballgame here. If
checks and balances were going to work,
they would work with humans as well. If
they aren't going to work, they wouldn't
work with AIS as well. Um, and so maybe
this just dooms human checks and
balances as well. But yeah, again, I
think there's some way to I think
there's some way to make this happen.
Like it, you know, it just it just, you
know, the governments of the world may
have to work together to make it happen.
like you know we may have to you may
have to talk to AIS about kind of you
know building societal structures in
such a way that like these these
defenses are possible. I I I don't know.
I mean this is so this is you know I
don't want to say so far ahead in time
but like so far ahead in technological
ability that may happen over a short
period of time that it's hard for us to
anticipated in advance. Um, speaking of
governments getting involved, on
December 26th, the Tennessee legislature
introduced a bill which uh said, quote,
um, it would be an offense for a person
to knowingly train artificial
intelligence to provide emotional
support, including through open-ended
conversations with a user. And of
course, one of the things that Claude
attempts to do is be uh a thoughtful um
thoughtful friend, thoughtful,
knowledgeable friend. And in general, it
seems like we're going to have this
patchwork of state laws. A lot of the
benefits that normal people could
experience as a result of AI are going
to be curtailed, especially when we get
into the kinds of things you discussed
in machines of love and grace,
biological freedom, mental health
improvements, etc., etc. It seems easier
to imagine worlds in which these get
whack-a-ole away by different laws. Um,
whereas
bills like this don't seem to address
the actual existential threats that
you're concerned about. So I'm curious
about to understand in the context of
things like this your anthropics
position against the federal moratorium
on state AI laws.
>> Yes. So I don't know there's there's
many different things going on at once,
right? I think I think that that I think
that particular law is is dumb. Like you
know I think it was it was clearly made
by legislators who just probably had
little idea what AI models could do and
not do. They're like AI models serving
as that just sounds scary. Like I don't
want I don't want that to happen. So,
you know, we're we're we're not we're
not in favor of that, right? But but but
that, you know, that that wasn't the
thing that was being voted on. The thing
that was being voted on is we're going
to ban all state regulation of AI for 10
years with no apparent plan to to do any
federal regulation of AI, which would
take Congress to pass, which is a very
high bar. Um so you know the idea that
we'd ban states from doing anything for
10 years and people said they had a plan
for federal government but you know
there was no actual there was no
proposal on the table. There was no
actual attempt. Um given the serious
dangers that I lay out in adolescence of
technology around things like the you
know kind of biological weapons and
bioteterrorism autonomy risk and the
timelines we've been talking about like
10 years is an eternity. like that's
that's a that's a I I think that's a
crazy thing to do. So if if that's the
choice, if that's what you force us to
choose, then then we're going to we're
going to choose not to have that
moratorum. And you know, I think the the
the benefits of that position exceed the
costs. But it's it's not a perfect
position if that's the choice. Now, I
think the thing that we should do, the
thing that I would support is the
federal government should step in, not
saying states you can't regulate, but
here's what we're going to do and and
states you can't differ from this,
right? Like I think preeemption is fine
in the sense of saying that federal
government says here's our standard.
This applies to everyone. States can't
do something different. That would be
something I would support if it would be
done in the right way. What um but but
this idea of states you can't do
anything and we're not doing anything
either that that struck that struck us
as you know very much not making sense
and I think will not age well it's
already starting to not age well with
with all the um backlash that that
you've seen now in terms of in terms of
what we would want I mean you know the
things we've talked about are are
starting with transparency standards um
uh uh you know in order to monitor some
of these autonomy risks and bio
terrorism risks as the risks become more
serious um as we as we get more evidence
for them then I think we could be more
aggressive in some targeted ways and and
say hey AI bioteterrorism is really a
threat let's let's pass a law that kind
of forces people to have classifiers and
I could even imagine it it depends it
depends how serious a threat it ends up
being we don't know for sure and we need
to pursue this in an intellectually
honest way where we say ahead of time
the risk has not emerged yet but I could
certainly imagine with the pace that
things are going that you know I could
imagine a world where later this year we
say hey this this AI bioteterrorism
stuff is really serious we should do
something about it we should put it in a
federal we should you know put it in a
federal standard and if the federal
government won't act we should put it in
a state standard I could totally see
that I I I'm concerned about a world
where
if you just consider the the pace of
progress you're expecting the life cycle
of of legislation you the the benefits
are, as you say, because of diffusion
lag, the benefits are slow enough that I
really do think this patchwork of on the
current trajectory, this patchwork of
state laws would prohibit. I mean,
having an emotional chatbot friend is
something that freaks people out, then
just imagine the kinds of actual
benefits from AI we want normal people
to be able to experience from
improvements in health and health span
and improvements in mental health and so
forth. whereas at the same time uh it
seems like you think the dangers are
already on the horizon and I just don't
see that much um it seems like would be
especially injurious to the benefits of
AI uh as compared to the the dangers of
AI and so that that's maybe the where
the cost benefit makes less sense to me.
So, so, so there's a few things here,
right? I mean, people talk about there
being thousands of these state laws.
First of all, the vast vast majority of
them do not pass. Um, and you know, the
the the the you know, the world works a
certain way in theory, but like just
because a law has been passed doesn't
mean it's really enforced, right? The
people the people you know implementing
it may be like, "Oh my god, this is
stupid." It would mean shutting off
like, you know, everything that's ever
been built and everything that's ever
been built in Tennessee. So, you know,
very often laws are interpreted in like,
you know, a way that makes them that
that that makes them not as dangerous or
not as harmful. On on the same side, of
course, you have to worry if you're
passing a law to stop a bad thing, you
had this you had this problem as well.
Yeah. Um uh look my my look I mean my
basic view is you know if if if
you know we could decide you know what
laws were passed and how things were
done which you know we're only one small
input input into that you know I would
deregulate a lot of the stuff around the
health benefits of AI. Um I think you
know I I don't worry as much about the
like the the the kind of chatbot laws. I
I actually worry more about the drug
approval process where I think AI models
are going to greatly accelerate um the
rate at which we discover drugs and just
the the pipeline will get jammed up like
the pipeline will not be prepared to
like process all all of the stuff that's
going through it. So um you know I I I
think I think reform of the regulatory
process to buy us more towards we have a
lot of things coming where the safety
and the efficacy is actually going to be
really crisp and clear like I mean a
beautiful thing really really crisp and
clear and like really really effective
but you know and and and maybe we don't
need all this all this um uh uh like um
all this superructure around it that was
designed around an era of drugs that
barely work and often and have serious
side effects. Um but at the same time I
think we should be ramping up quite
significantly the um uh you know this
this kind of safety and security
legislation and you know like I've said
um you know starting with transparency
is is my view of trying not to hamper
the industry right trying to find the
right balance. I'm worried about it.
Some people criticize my essay for
saying that's too slow. The dangers of
AI will come too soon if we do that.
Well, basically I kind of think like the
last 6 months and maybe the next few
months are going to be about
transparency. And then if these ris if
these risks emerge when we're more
certain of them, which I think we might
be as soon as as later this year, then I
think we need to act very fast in the
areas that we've actually seen the risk.
Like I think the only way to do this is
to be nimble. Now the legislative
process is normally not nimble but we we
need to emphasize to everyone involved
the urgency of this. That's why I'm
sending this message of urgency, right?
That's why I wrote adolescence of
technology. I wanted policy makers to
read it. I wanted economists to read it.
I want national security professionals
to read it. You know, I want decision
makers to read it so that they have some
hope of acting faster than they would
have otherwise. Is there anything you
can do or advocate that would
make it more certain that the benefits
of AI are um are better instantiated
where I feel like you have worked with
legislators to be like okay we're going
to prevent biotterism here way we're
going to increase we're going to
increase whistleblower protection and I
just think by default the actual ben
like the things we're looking forward to
here it just seems very easy they seem
very fragile to uh different kinds of
moral panics or political economy
problems.
>> Yeah, I don't actually so so I don't
actually agree that much in the
developed world. I feel like, you know,
in the developed world like markets
function pretty well and when there's
when there's like a lot of money to be
made on something and it's clearly the
best available alternative, it's
actually hard for the regulatory system
to stop it. You know, we're we're seeing
that in AI itself, right? I you know,
like a thing I've been trying to fight
for is export controls on chips to
China, right? And like that's in the
national security interests of the US
like you know that's like square within
the you know the the policy beliefs of
you know every almost everyone in
Congress of both parties but and you
know I think the case is very clear. The
counterarguments against it are I'll
politely call them fishy. Um uh and yet
it doesn't happen and we sell the chips
because there's there's so much money
there's so much money riding on it. um
and you know the the that money wants to
be made and and in that case in my
opinion that's a bad thing. Um and but
but it also it also applies when when
it's a good thing and and so I I don't
think that if we're talking about drugs
and benefits of the technology I I I I
am not as worried about those benefits
being hampered in the developed world. I
am a little worried about them going too
slow and I as I said I do think we
should work to speed the approval
process in the FDA. I do think we should
fight against these chatbot bills that
you're describing right described
individually. I'm against them. I think
they're stupid. Um but I actually think
the bigger worry is a developing world
um where we don't have functioning
markets where um you know we often can't
build on the technology that that we've
had. I worry more that those folks will
get left behind. And I worry that even
if the cures are developed, you know,
maybe there's someone in rural
Mississippi who who doesn't get it as
well. Right? That's a that's a that's a
kind of smaller version of the thing the
concern we have in the in the developing
world. And so the things we've been
doing are you know you know we work with
you know we work with you know
philanthropists right you know we work
with folks um who you know who you know
deliver you know medicine and health
interventions to you know to to
developing world to subsaharan Africa
you know India Latin America you know
you know other other developing parts of
the world that's the thing I think that
won't happen on its own you mentioned
export controls Yeah.
>> Why can't US and China both have a
country of geniuses
>> on a data center?
>> Why can't you know why won't it happen
or why should
>> why shouldn't it happen?
>> Why shouldn't it happen? Um, you know, I
think I think if this does happen, um,
you know, then then we kind of have a
well, we could have a few situ if we
have like an offense dominant situation.
We could have a situation like nuclear
weapons, but like more dangerous, right?
Where it's like um, you know, kind of
kind of either side could could easily
destroy everything. Um, we could also
have a world where it's kind of it's
unstable. Like the nuclear equilibrium
is stable, right? Because it's, you
know, it's like deterrence. But let's
say there were uncertainty about like if
the two AIs fought, which AI would win.
Um, that could create instability,
right? You often have conflict when the
two sides have a different assessment of
their likelihood of winning, right? If
one side is like, oh yeah, there's a 90%
chance I'll win. And the other side's
like, there's a 90% chance I'll win,
then then a fight is much more likely.
Um, they can't both be right, but they
can both think that. But this seems like
a fully general argument against the
diffusion of AI technology which it may
which is that's the implication of this
world.
>> Let me let me just go on because I think
we will get diffusion eventually. The
other concern I have is that people the
governments will oppress their own
people with AI and and and so um you
know I'm I'm just I'm worried about some
world where you have a country that's
already you know kind of a uh you know
you know there's there's a government
that kind of kind of already um you know
is is kind of kind of building a you
know a tech high-tech authoritarian
state. Um and to be clear this is about
the government. this is not about the
people like people we need to find a way
for people everywhere to benefit. Um my
worry here is about governments. Um so
yeah my you know my my worry is the
world gets carved up into two pieces one
of those two pieces could be
authoritarian or totalitarian in a way
that's very difficult to displace. Um
now will will governments eventually get
powerful AI and and you know there's
risk of authoritarianism? Yes. Will
governments eventually get powerful AI
and there's risk of um uh you know of of
kind of bad bad bad equilibria? Yes, I
think both things, but the initial
conditions matter, right? You know, at
at some point we're need we're going to
need to set up the rules of the road.
I'm not saying that one country, either
the United States or a coalition of
democracies, which I think is would be a
better setup, although it requires more
international cooperation than we
currently seem to want to make. Um, but
you know, I don't I don't think a
coalition of democracies or or certainly
one country should just say these are
the rules of the road. There's going to
be some negotiation, right? The world is
going to have to grapple with this. And
what I would like is that the the the
democratic nations of the world, those
with, you know, who are clo whose
governments have represent closer to
prohuman values are are holding a
stronger hand then have have more
leverage when the rules of the road are
set. And and so I'm I'm very concerned
about that initial condition. I um I was
relisting to an interview from three
years ago and one of the ways it aged
poorly is that I kept asking questions
assuming there's going to be some key
fulcrum moment two to three years from
now when in fact being that far out it
just seems like progress continues AI
improves AI is more diffused and people
will use it for more things. It seems
like you're imagining a world in the
future where the countries get together
and here's the rules of the road and
here's the leverage we have, here's the
leverage you have when it seems like on
current trajectory, everybody will have
more AI. Um, some of that AI will be
used by authoritarian countries. Some of
that within the authoritarian countries
will be by private actors versus state
actors. It's not clear who will benefit
more. It's always unpredictable to tell
tell in advance. You know, it seems like
the internet privileged authoritarian
countries more than you would have
expected. Um, and maybe the AI will be
the opposite way around. Um so I I I
want to better understand what you're
imagining here.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So so just to be precise
about it, I think the exponential of the
underlying technology will continue as
it has before, right? The models get
smarter and smarter even when they get
to country of geniuses in a data center.
You know, I I think you can continue to
make the model smarter. There's a
question of like getting diminishing
returns on their value in the world,
right? How much does it matter after
you've already solved human biology or
you know you know at some point you can
do harder math you can do more abstuse
math problems but nothing after that
matters but putting that aside I do
think the the exponential will continue
but there will be certain distinguished
points on the exponential and companies
individuals countries will reach those
points at different times um and and so
you know there's there's you know could
there be some you know you know I talk
about is a nuclear deterrent still in
adolescence of technology is a nuclear
deterrent still stable uh in the world
of of of AI I don't know but that's
that's an example of like one thing
we've taken for granted that like the
technology could reach such a level that
it's no longer like you know we can no
longer be certain of it at least um uh
you know think of think of others you
know there there you know there there
are kind of points where if you if you
reach a certain point you maybe you have
offensive cyber dominance and like every
every computer system is transparent to
you after that. Um, unless the other
side has a has a kind of equivalent
defense. So, I don't know what the
critical moment is or if there's a
single critical moment. But I think
there will be either a critical moment,
a small number of critical moments or
some critical window where it's like AI
is AI confers some large advantage from
the perspective of national security and
one country or coalition has reached it
before others that that you know that
that that you know I'm not advocating
that they're just like okay we're in
charge now. That's not that's not how
that's not how I think about it. you
know that there's always the the other
side is catching up. There's extreme
actions you're not willing to take and
and and it's not right to take, you
know, to take complete um to take
complete control anyway. But but at at
the point that that happens, I think
people are going to understand that the
world has changed. And there there's
going to be some negotiation, implicit
or implicit, about what what is the what
is the post AI world order look like?
And and I think my interest is in,
you know, making that ne negotiation
be one in which, you know, classical
liberal democracy has, you know, has a
strong hand. Well, I want to understand
what that better means because you say
in the essay, quote, autocracy is simply
not a form of government that people can
accept in the post powerful AI. And that
sounds like you're saying the CCP as an
institution cannot exist after we get
AGI. Um, and that seems like
a like a very strong demand and it seems
to imply a world where the leading lab
or the leading country will be able to
and by that language should get to
determine how the world is governed or
what kinds of governments are allowed
and not allowed.
>> Yeah. So when I when I um I I believe
that paragraph was I think I said
something like you could take it even
further and say X. So I wasn't I wasn't
necessarily endorsing that that that I
wasn't necessarily endorsing that view.
I you know I was saying like here's if
first you know here here's a weaker
thing that I believe you know I think I
you know I think I said you know we have
to worry a lot about authoritarians and
you know we should try and you know kind
of kind of check them and limit their
power. Like you could take this kind of
further much more interventionist view
that says like authoritarian countries
with AI are these you know the the you
know the these kind of self-fulfilling
cycles that that you can't that are very
hard to displace and so you just need to
get rid of them from from the beginning
that that has exactly all the problems
you say which is you know you know if
you were to make a commitment to
overthrowing every authoritarian country
I mean they then they would take a bunch
of actions now that like you know that
that that could could lead to
instability so that that may or you know
that that just that just may not be
possible. But the point I was making
that I do endorse is that it is it is
quite possible that you know today you
know the view or at least my view or the
view in most the western world is is
democracy is a better form of government
than authoritarianism. But it's not like
if a country is authoritarian, we don't
react the way we reacted if they
committed a genocide or something,
right? And and I'm I guess what I'm
saying is I'm a little worried that in
the age of AGI, authoritarianism will
have a different meaning. It will be a
graver thing. Um and and we have to
decide one way or another how to h how
to deal with that. And the
interventionist view is one possible
view. I was exploring such views. um you
know
it may end up being the right view. It
it may end up being too extreme to be
the right view. But I do have hope and
one piece of hope I have is
there there is we have seen that as new
technologies are invented
forms of government become obsolete. I I
mentioned this in adolescence of
technology where I said you know like
feudalism was basically you know like a
form of government right and and then
when when we invented industrialization
feudalism was no longer sustainable it
no longer made sense why is that hope
couldn't that imply that democracy is no
longer going to be a competitive system
>> it it could right it could go it could
go either way right but but I actually
so I these problems with
authoritarianism, right? That the
problems with authoritarianism get
deeper. I just I wonder if that's an
indicator of other problems that
authoritarianism will have, right? In
other words, people become because
authoritarianism becomes worse, people
are more afraid of authoritarianism.
They work harder to stop it. It's it's
more of a like you have to think in
terms of total equilibrium, right? Um, I
just wonder if it will motivate new ways
of thinking about with the with with the
new technology how to preserve and
protect freedom
>> and and even more optimistically, will
it lead to a collective reckoning and,
you know, a kind of a a more emphatic
realization of how important some of the
things we take as individual rights are,
right? a more emphatic realization that
we just we really can't give these away.
There's there we've seen there's no
other way to live that actually works.
Um I I I I am actually I am actually
hopeful that I I guess one way to say it
it sounds too idealistic but I actually
believe it could be the case is is that
is that dictatorships become morally
obsolete. They become morally unworkable
forms of government. Um and that and
that and that the the the the crisis
that that creates is is is sufficient to
force us to find another way. Um I I
think there is genuinely a tough
question here which I'm not sure how you
resolve for and we've had to come out
one way or another on it through history
right so with China in the 70s and ' 80s
we decided even though it's an
authoritarian system we will engage with
it and I think in retrospect that was
the right call because it has stayed
authoritarian system but a billion plus
people are much wealthier and better off
than they would have otherwise been um
and it's not clear that it would have
stopped being an authoritarian country
otherwise you can just look at North
Korea uh as an example of that, right?
And I don't know if that takes that much
that much intelligence to remain an
authoritarian country that continues to
coales its own power. And so you can
just imagine a North Korea with an AI
that's much worse than everybody else's
but still enough to keep power and and
and and then so in general it seems like
should we just have this attitude of the
benefits of AI will in the form of all
these empowerments of humanity and
health and so forth will be big and in
historically we have decided it's good
to spread the benefits of technology
widely even with even to people whose
governments are authoritarian and I
think I guess it is a tough question how
to think about it with AI but um
historically we have said Yes, this
there this is a positive some world and
it's still worth diffusing technology.
>> Yeah. So so there are a number of
choices we have. I you know I think
framing this as a kind of government to
government decision and and you know in
in national security terms that's like
one lens but there are a lot of other
lenses like you could imagine a world
where you know we produce all these
cures to diseases and like the you know
the the the cures to diseases are fine
to sell to authoritarian countries. The
data centers just aren't right. the
chips and the data centers just aren't
um and that the AI industry itself. Um
uh you know like like another
possibility is and and I think folks
should think about this like you know
could there be developments we can make
either that naturally happen as a result
of AI or that we could make happen by
building technology on AI. Could we
create an equilibrium where where it
becomes infeasible for authoritarian
countries to deny their people kind of
private use of the benefits of the
technology? Um uh you know are there are
there are there are there equilibria
where we can kind of give everyone in
authoritarian country their own AI model
that kind of you you know like defends
themselves from surveillance and there
isn't a way for the authoritarian
country to like crack crack down on this
while while retaining power. I don't
know that that sounds to me like if that
went far enough it would be it would be
a reason why authoritarian countries
would disintegrate from the inside. Um
but but maybe there's a middle world
where like there there's an equilibrium
where if they want to hold on to power
the authoritarians can't deny kind of
individualized access access to the
technology. But I actually do have a
hope for the for the um for the for the
more radical version which is you know
is it possible that the technology might
inherently have properties or that by
building on it in certain ways we could
create properties um that that that that
have this kind of dissolving effect on
authoritarian structures. Now, we we
hoped originally, if we think back to
the beginning of the Obama
administration, we thought originally
that that, you know, social media and
and the internet would have that
property, and it turns out not to. But,
but I I don't know what what if we could
uh what if we could try again with with
the knowledge of how many things could
go wrong and that this is a different
technology. I don't know that it would
work, but it's worth a try.
>> Yeah. I think it's just it's very
unpredictable. Like there's first
principles reasons why authoritarianism.
>> It's all very unpredictable. I I don't
think I mean we got to we we just got to
we kind of we got to recognize the
problem and then we got to come up with
10 things we can try and we got to try
those and then assess whether they're
working or which ones are working if any
and and then try new ones if the old
ones aren't. I guess what that nets out
to today is you say we will not sell
data centers or sorry chips and then the
ability to make chips to China and so in
some sense you are denying there would
be some benefits to that's right the
Chinese economy Chinese people etc
because we're doing that and then
there'd also be benefits to the American
economy because it's a positive sum
world we could trade they could have
their country data centers doing one
thing we could have ours doing another
and already we you're saying it's not
worth that positive sum
stipend to empower this country's
>> what what I would say is that you know
we are we are about to be in a world
where growth and economic value will
come very easily if right if we're able
to build these powerful AI models growth
and economic value will come very easily
what will not come easily is
distribution of benefits distribution of
wealth political freedom um you know
these are the things that are going to
be hard to achieve and so when I think
about policy
I think I think that the technology and
the market will deliver all the
fundamental benefits, you know, almost
almost faster than we can take them. Um
uh and and that these questions about
about distribution and political freedom
and rights are are are the ones that
that will actually matter and that
policy should focus on. Okay. So
speaking of distribution, as you're
mentioning, we have developing countries
and
>> um
>> in many cases catchup growth has weak
been weaker than we would have hoped
for. When catchup growth does happen,
it's fundamentally because they have
underutilized labor and we can bring the
capital and knowhow from developed
countries to these countries and then
they can grow quite rapidly.
>> Obviously in a world where labor is no
longer the constraining factor, this
mechanism no longer works.
>> And so is the hope basically to rely on
philanthropy from the people who
immediately get wealthy from AI or from
the countries that get wealthy from AI?
What what is the hope for? Yeah, I I
mean philanthropy should obviously play
some role as it has the you know as has
in the past but I think growth is always
growth is always better and stronger if
we can make it endogenous. So you know
what are the relevant industries in like
in like in like in like an AI driven
world. Look there's lots of stuff you
know like there's you know I said I said
we shouldn't build data centers in China
but there's no reason we shouldn't build
data centers in Africa right? Um in fact
I think it'd be great to build data
centers in Africa. um you know as not
long as they're not owned by China. We
should we should build we should build
data centers in Africa. I think that's a
that's that's I think that's a great
thing to do. um you know we should also
build you know there's no reason we
can't build you know a pharmaceutical
industry that's like AIdriven like you
know the the if if AI is accelerating
accelerating drug discovery then you
know there will be a bunch of biotech
startups like let's make sure some of
those happen in the developing world and
certainly during the transition I mean
we can talk about the point where humans
have no role but but humans will have
still have some role in starting up
these companies and supervising
supervising the AI models so let's make
sure some of those humans are humans in
developing world so that fast growth can
happen there as well.
>> You guys recently announced quad is
going to have a constitution that's
aligned to a set of values and not
necessarily just the end user and
there's a world you can imagine where if
it is aligned to the end user it
preserves the balance of power we have
in the world today because everybody
gets to have their own AI that's
advocating for them and so the ratio of
bad actors to good actors stays
constant. It seems to work out for our
world today. Um why is it better not to
do that but to have a specific set of
values that the AI should carry forward?
>> Uh yeah so I'm not sure I'd quite draw
the distinction in that way. Um there
there are maybe two relevant
distinctions here which are I think
you're talking about a mix of the two
like one is should we give the model a
set of instructions about do this and
versus don't do this
>> and the other you know versus should we
give the model a set of principles for
you know for kind of how to act. Um and
and and there it's it's you know it's I
you know it's it's just p it's kind of
purely a practical and empirical thing
that we've observed that by teaching the
model principles getting it to learn
from principles its behavior is more
consistent. It's easier to cover edge
cases and the model is more likely to do
what people want it to do. In other
words, if you, you know, if you're like,
you know, don't tell people how to
hotwire a car, don't speak in Korea, and
don't, you know, you know, just, you
know, if you give it a list of rules, it
doesn't really understand the rules, and
it's kind of hard to generalize from
them. Um, you know, if if it's just kind
of a like, you know, list of do dos and
don'ts. Whereas, if you give it
principles and then, you know, it has
some hard guard rails like don't make
biological weapons. But overall you're
trying to understand
what it should be aiming to do h how it
should be aiming to operate. So just
from a practical perspective that turns
out to be just a more effective way to
train the model. That's one piece of it.
So that you know it's the kind of rules
versus principles trade-off. Then
there's another thing you're talking
about which is kind of like the
cageability versus um like you know I
would say kind of intr intrinsic
motivation trade-off which is like how
much should the model be a kind of I
don't know like a a skin suit or
something where you know you know you
know you just kind of you know it just
kind of directly follows the
instructions that are given to it by
whoever is giving it those instructions.
um versus how much should the model have
an inherent set of values and and go off
and do things on its own. Um and and and
and and there I I would actually say
everything about the model is actually
closer to the direction of of like you
know it should mostly do what people
want. It should mostly follow the we're
not trying to build something that like
you know goes off and runs the world on
its own. We're actually pretty far on
the corable side. Now, now what we do
say is there are certain things that the
model won't do, right? That it's like
you know that that that I think we say
it in various ways in the constitution
that under normal circumstances if
someone asks the model to do a task it
should do that task that that should be
the default. Um but if you've asked it
to do something dangerous or if you've
you know if you've um asked it to um you
know uh uh uh to kind of harm someone
else um then the model is unwilling to
do that. So I I actually think of it as
like a mostly a mostly corable model
that has some limits but those limits
are based on principles.
>> Yeah. I mean then the fundamental
question is how are those principles
determined? And this is not a special
question for anthropic. would be a
question for any company but um
>> uh because you have been the ones to
actually write down the principles I get
to ask you this question normally a
constitution is like you write it down
it's set in stone and there's a process
of updating it and changing it and so
forth in this case it seems like a
document that people anthropic write
that can be changed at any time that
guides the behavior of systems are going
to be the basis of a lot of economic
activity what is H how do you think
about ho how those principles should be
set?
>> Yes. Um so I think there's there's two
there's maybe three
three kind of sizes of loop here, right?
Three three ways to iterate. One is you
can iterate. We iterate within
enthropic. We train the model. We're not
happy with it and we kind of change the
constitution.
>> And I think that's good to do. Um and
you know putting out publicly you know
making updates to the constitution every
once in a while saying here's a new
constitution. I think that's good to do
because people can comment on it. The
second level of loop is different
companies will have different
constitutions. Um and you know I think
it's useful for like anthropic puts out
a constitution and you know you the
Gemini model puts out a constitution and
you know other companies put out a
constitution and then then they can kind
of look at them compare outside
observers can critique and say this this
I like this one this thing from this
constitution and this thing for that
constitution and and then kind of that
that creates some kind of you know soft
incentive and feedback for all the
companies to like take the best of each
elements and improve Then I think
there's a third loop which is you know
society beyond the AI companies and
beyond just those who kind of you know
who who comment on the constitutions
without hard power and and there you
know we've done some experiments like
you know a couple years ago we did an
experiment with I think it was called
the collective intelligence project to
like um you know to to basically pull
people and ask them what should be in
our AI constitution. um uh and and you
know I think at the time we incorporated
some of those changes and so you could
imagine with the new approach we've
taken to the constitution doing
something like that it's a little harder
because it's like that was actually an
easier approach to take when the
constitution was like a list of dos and
don'ts um at the level of principles it
has to have a certain amount of
coherence um but but you could you could
still imagine getting views from a wide
variety of people and I think you could
also imagine and this is like a crazy
idea but hey you know this whole
interview is about crazy ideas, right?
So, um uh you know, you could even
imagine systems of of kind of
representative government having having
input, right? Like, you know, I wouldn't
I wouldn't do this today because the
legislative process is so slow. Like
this is exactly why I think we should be
careful about the legislative process
and AI regulation. But there's no reason
you couldn't in principle say like you
know all AI you know all AI models have
to have a constitution that starts with
like these things and then like you can
append you can append other things after
it but like there has to be this special
section that like takes precedence. I
wouldn't do that. That's too rigid. That
that sounds um you know that that that
that sounds kind of overly prescriptive
in a way that I think overly aggressive
legislation is. But like that is a thing
you could you know like like that is
that is a thing you could try to do. Is
is there some much less heavy-handed
version of that? Maybe I really like
control loop too. um where obviously
this is not how constitutions of actual
governments do or should work where
there there's not this vague sense in
which the Supreme Court will feel out
how people are feeling and what are
their vibes and then update the of the
constitution accordingly. There's with
actual governments there's a more
procedural process. Exactly. But you
actually have a vision
>> of competition between constitutions
which is actually very reminiscent of
how um
>> some libertarian charter cities people
used to talk about what an archipelago
of different kinds of governments could
look like and then there would be
selection among them of who could
operate the most effectively in which
place people would be the happiest. And
in a sense you're actually yeah there's
this vision. I'm I'm kind of recreating
that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. This utopia of archipelago,
>> you know, again, you know, I think I
think that vision has has, you know,
things to recommend it and things that
things things that will kind of kind of
go wrong with it. You know, I think I
think it's a I think it's an interesting
in some ways compelling vision, but also
things will go wrong with it that you
hadn't that you hadn't imagined. So, you
know, I I I like loop 2 as well, but I I
I feel like the whole thing has got to
be some some mix of loops one, two, and
three. And it's it's a matter of the
proportions, right? I I think that's got
to be the the answer.
>> Um
>> when somebody eventually writes the
equivalent of the making of the atomic
bomb for this era, what is the thing
that will be hardest to glean from the
historical record that they're most
likely to miss? I think a few things.
One is at every moment of this
exponential, the extent to which the
world outside it didn't understand it.
This is this is a bias that's often
present in history where anything that
actually happened looks inevitable in
retrospect and and so you know I I think
when people when people look back it
will be hard for them to put themselves
in the place of people who were actually
making a bet on this thing to happen
that wasn't inevitable that we had these
arguments like the arguments you know
that I make for scaling or that
continual learning will be solved um uh
uh you know that that you know some of
us internally in our heads put a high
probability on this happening but but
it's like there's there's a world
outside us that's not that's not acting
on it's not kind of not acting on that
at all. Um uh and and and I think I
think the the weirdness of it um I I I I
think unfortunately like the insolerity
of it like you know
if if we're one year or two years away
from it happening like the average
person on the street has no idea and
that's one of the things I'm trying to
change like with the memos with talking
to policy makers but like I don't know I
think I I I think that's just a that's
just like a crazy that's just like a
crazy thing. Yeah. Um, finally I would
say and and this probably applies to
almost all historical moments of crisis.
Um, how absolutely fast it was
happening, how everything was happening
all at once. And so decisions that you
might think, you know, were kind of
carefully calculated, well, actually you
have to make that decision and then you
have to make 30 other decisions on the
on the same day because it's all
happening so fast and and you don't even
know which decisions are going to turn
out to be consequential. So, you know,
one of my one of my I guess worries,
although it's also an insight into into,
you know, into kind of what's happening
is that, you know, some very critical
decision will be will be some decision
that, you know, someone just comes into
my office and is like, Dario, you have
two minutes like, you know, should we
should we do, you know, should we do
thing thing A or thing B on this like,
you know, someone gives me this random,
you know, half page half page memo and
is like, should we should we do A or B?
And I'm like, I don't know. I have to
eat lunch. Let's do B. And and you know,
that ends up being the most
consequential thing ever.
>> So, final question. Uh, it seems like
you have
there's not tech CEOs who are usually
writing 50page memos every few months,
and it seems like you have managed to
build a role for yourself and a company
around you which is compatible with this
more intellectual type role of CEO. And
I want to understand how you construct
that and how like how does that work to
be you just go away for a couple weeks
and then you tell your company this is
the memo like here's what we're doing.
It's also reported you write a bunch of
these internally.
>> Yeah. So I mean for this particular one
you know I wrote it over winter break.
Um uh so it was the time you know and I
was having a a hard time finding the
time to actually find it to actually
write it. But I actually think about
this in a broader way. Um I actually
think it relates to the culture of the
company. So I probably spend a third
maybe 40% of my time making sure the
culture of Enthropic is good. As
Enthropic has gotten larger, it's it's
gotten harder to just, you know, get
involved in like, you know, directly
involved in like the training of the
models, the launch of the models, the
building of the products. Like it's 2500
people. It's like, you know, there's
just, you know, I have certain
instincts, but like there's only, you
know, I it's very difficult to get to
get to get involved in every single
detail. You know, I like I I try as much
as possible, but one thing that's very
leveraged is making sure Anthropic is a
good place to work. People like working
there. Everyone thinks of themselves as
team members. Everyone works together
instead of against each other. And you
know, we've seen as some of the other AI
companies have grown without naming any
names, you know, we're starting to see
decoherence and people fighting each
other. And you know, I would argue there
was even a lot of that from the
beginning, but but you know, that it's
it's gotten worse. But I I think we've
done an extraordinarily good job, even
if not perfect, of holding the company
together, making everyone feel the
mission, that we're sincere about the
mission, and that, you know, everyone
has faith that everyone else there is
working for the right reason, that we're
a team, that people aren't trying to get
ahead at each other's expense or
backstab each other, which again, I
think happens a lot at some of the other
places. Um, and and how do you make that
the case? I mean it's a lot of things
you know it's me it's it's it's Daniela
who you know runs the company dayto-day
it's the co-founders it's the other
people we hire it's the environment we
try to create but I think an important
thing in the culture is I some and you
know the the you know the other leaders
as well but especially me have to
articulate what the company is about why
it's doing what it's doing what its
strategy is what its values are what its
mission is and what it stands for And um
you know when you get to 2500 people you
can't do that person by person. You have
to write or you have to speak to the
whole company. This is why I get up in
front of the whole company every two
weeks and speak for an hour. It's
actually I mean I wouldn't say I write
essays internally. I do two things. One
I write this thing called DVQ Dario
Vision Quest. Um uh uh I wasn't the one
who named it that. That's the name it it
it received and it's one of these names
that I kind of I tried to fight it
because it made it sound like I was like
going off and smoking peyote or
something. Um uh but but the name just
stuck. Um so I get up in front of the
company every two weeks. I have like a
three or four page document and I just
kind of talk through like three or four
different topics about what's going on
internally the you know the the models
we're producing the products the outside
industry the world as a whole as it
relates to AI and geopolitically in
general you know just some mix of that
and I just go through very very honestly
I just go through and I just I just say
you know this is this is what I'm
thinking this is what anthropic
leadership is thinking and then I answer
questions and and that direct connection
I think has a lot of value that is hard
to achieve when you're passing things
down the chain you know six six levels
deep um uh and you know large fraction
of the company comes comes to attend
either either in person or um either in
person or virtually and you know it
really means that you can communicate a
lot and then the other thing I do is I
just you know I have a channel in Slack
where I just write a bunch of things and
comment a lot um and often that's in
response to you know just things I'm
seeing at the company or questions
people ask or like you know we do
internal surveys and there are things
people are concerned about and so I'll
write them up and I'm like I'm you know
I'm I'm I'm just I'm very honest about
these things you know I just I just say
them very directly and the point is to
get a reputation of telling the company
the truth about what's happening to call
things what they are to acknowledge
problems to avoid the sort of corpo
speak the kind of defensive
communication that often is necessary in
public because you know the world is
very large and full of people who are
you know interpreting things in bad
faith. Um but you know if you have a
company of people who you trust and we
try to hire people that we trust then
then you know you can you can you can
you know you can you can really just be
entirely unfiltered. Um and uh you know
I think I think that's an enormous
strength of the company. It makes it a
better place to work. It makes people
more you know more the sum of their
parts and increases likelihood that we
accomplish the mission because everyone
is on the same page about the mission
and everyone is debating and discussing
how best to accomplish the mission.
>> Well in lie of an external Dario vision
quest we have this interview.
>> This this interview is a little like
that.
>> Uh this is fun Dario. Thanks for doing
it.
>> Yeah thank you Dash. Hey everybody I
hope you enjoyed that episode. If you
did the most helpful thing you can do is
just share it with other people who you
think might enjoy it. It's also helpful
if you leave a rating or a comment on
whatever platform you're listening on.
If you're interested in sponsoring the
podcast, you can reach out at
dwarcash.com/advertise.
Otherwise, I'll see you on the next one.